32911311 References Neurologic complications of COVID-19 infection have been recently described and include dizziness, headache, loss of taste and smell, stroke, and encephalopathy. Brain MRI in these patients have revealed various findings including ischemia, hemorrhage, inflammation, and demyelination. In this article, we report a case of critical illness-associated cerebral microbleeds identified on MRI in a patient with severe COVID-19 infection and discuss the potential etiologies of these neuroimaging findings. Neurological symptoms are common in patients with COVID-19. Critical illness-associated cerebral microbleeds can be seen in the setting of severe COVID-19. Critical illness-associated cerebral microbleeds are a neuroimaging finding thought to be related to hypoxemia, ECMO-related complications and/or DIC. In patients with severe COVID-19, other potential etiologies of cerebral microbleeds are endotheliopathy, encephalitis and immune response.
32911311 References Neurologic complications of COVID-19 infection have been recently described and include dizziness, headache, loss of taste and smell, stroke, and encephalopathy. Brain MRI in these patients have revealed various findings including ischemia, hemorrhage, inflammation, and demyelination. In this article, we report a case of critical illness-associated cerebral microbleeds identified on MRI in a patient with severe COVID-19 infection and discuss the potential etiologies of these neuroimaging findings. Neurological symptoms are common in patients with COVID-19. Critical illness-associated cerebral microbleeds can be seen in the setting of severe COVID-19. Critical illness-associated cerebral microbleeds are a neuroimaging finding thought to be related to hypoxemia, ECMO-related complications and/or DIC. In patients with severe COVID-19, other potential etiologies of cerebral microbleeds are endotheliopathy, encephalitis and immune response.
34061905 References The rapid evolution of RNA viruses has been long considered to result from a combination of high copying error frequencies during RNA replication, short generation times and the consequent extensive fixation of neutral or adaptive changes over short periods. While both the identities and sites of mutations are typically modelled as being random, recent investigations of sequence diversity of SARS coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) have identified a preponderance of C->U transitions, proposed to be driven by an APOBEC-like RNA editing process. The current study investigated whether this phenomenon could be observed in datasets of other RNA viruses. Using a 5% divergence filter to infer directionality, 18 from 36 datasets of aligned coding region sequences from a diverse range of mammalian RNA viruses (including Picornaviridae, Flaviviridae, Matonaviridae, Caliciviridae and Coronaviridae) showed a >2-fold base composition normalised excess of C->U transitions compared to U->C (range 2.1x-7.5x), with a consistently observed favoured 5' U upstream context. The presence of genome scale RNA secondary structure (GORS) was the only other genomic or structural parameter significantly associated with C->U/U->C transition asymmetries by multivariable analysis (ANOVA), potentially reflecting RNA structure dependence of sites targeted for C->U mutations. Using the association index metric, C->U changes were specifically over-represented at phylogenetically uninformative sites, potentially paralleling extensive homoplasy of this transition reported in SARS-CoV-2. Although mechanisms remain to be functionally characterised, excess C->U substitutions accounted for 11-14% of standing sequence variability of structured viruses and may therefore represent a potent driver of their sequence diversification and longer-term evolution. The rapid evolution of RNA viruses is thought to arise from high mutation frequencies during replication and the rapid accumulation of genetic changes over time in response to its changing environments. This study describes an additional potent factor that contributes to the evolution of RNA viruses infecting mammals, the occurrence of specific C->U mutations in a subset that possess intensely structured genomes. This mutational process substantially damages the virus's ability to replicate and is potentially akin to "genome editing" of HIV-1 and other retrovirus genome sequences by APOBEC, one of the principal components of vertebrate antiretroviral defence mechanisms. This study however provides evidence for a wider mutational activity against several human and veterinary RNA viruses, including HCV and foot and mouth disease virus. The C->U mutational process accounted for 15-20% of standing sequence variability of these RNA viruses, representing a potent driver of their sequence diversification and longer-term evolution.
34898715 REFERENCES The objective of this research is to determine how the COVID-19 pandemic influenced integration of women refugees into Turkish society. The study was designed as a qualitative study between March 2020 and June 2020. The notion of integration is redefined as an eight-dimensional model composed of education, sociocultural, health, economy, legal, shelter, family and security. Semi-structured interviews were conducted by telephone, with 50 women refugees in Turkey, about the impact of COVID-19 on integration. The results of the research indicate that most women refugees had both positive and negative experiences in economic, education and sociocultural dimensions of integration. The COVID-19 outbreak affected their integration in an unprecedented way, especially in daily and work life as well as access to health services. Similarly, language barriers faced by refugee women create significant challenges and obstacles, making the integration process more complex. Refugee women stated that COVID-19 positively influenced the security dimension of integration.
34910338 REFERENCES 
32292259 References At present, the situation of global fight against COVID-19 is serious. WHO (World Health Organization)-China Joint Mission fully confirms the success of "China's model" against COVID-19 in the report. In fact, one particular power in "China's model" is acupuncture and moxibustion of traditional Chinese medicine. To better apply "non-pharmaceutic measures":the external technique of traditional Chinese medicine, in the article, the main content of Guidance for acupuncture and moxibustion interventions on COVID-19 (Second edition) issued by China Association of Acupuncture-Moxibution is introduced and the discussion is stressed on the selection of moxibustion device and the duration of its exertion.
35519622 References The ongoing pandemic caused by the novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) has led to more than 445 million infections and the underlying disease, COVID-19, resulted in more than 6 million deaths worldwide. The scientific world is already predicting future zoonotic diseases. Hence, rapid response systems are needed to tackle future epidemics and pandemics. Here, we present the use of eukaryotic cell-free systems for the rapid response to novel zoonotic diseases represented by SARS-CoV-2. Non-structural, structural and accessory proteins encoded by SARS-CoV-2 were synthesized by cell-free protein synthesis in a fast and efficient manner. The inhibitory effect of the non-structural protein 1 on protein synthesis could be shown in vitro. Structural proteins were quantitatively detected by commercial antibodies, therefore facilitating cell-free systems for the validation of available antibodies. The cytotoxic envelope protein was characterized in electrophysiological planar lipid bilayer measurements. Hence, our study demonstrates the potential of eukaryotic cell-free systems as a rapid response mechanism for the synthesis, functional characterization and antibody validation against a viral pathogen.
35013628 References In their continuing battle against the COVID-19 pandemic, medical workers in hospitals worldwide need to wear safety glasses and goggles to protect their eyes from the possible transmission of the virus. However, they work for long hours and need to wear a mask and other personal protective equipment, which causes their protective eye wear to fog up. This fogging up of eye wear, in turn, has a substantial impact in the speed and accuracy of reading information on the interface of electrocardiogram (ECG) machines. To gain a better understanding of the extent of the impact, this study experimentally simulates the fogging of protective goggles when viewing the interface with three variables: the degree of fogging of the goggles, brightness of the screen, and color of the font of the cardiovascular readings. This experimental study on the target recognition of digital font is carried out by simulating the interface of an ECG machine and readability of the ECG machine with fogged eye wear. The experimental results indicate that the fogging of the lenses has a significant impact on the recognition speed and the degree of fogging has a significant correlation with the font color and brightness of the screen. With a reduction in screen brightness, its influence on recognition speed shows a v-shaped trend, and the response time is the shortest when the screen brightness is 150 cd/m2. When eyewear is fogged, yellow and green font colors allow a quicker response with a higher accuracy. On the whole, the subjects show a better performance with the use of green font, but there are inconsistencies. In terms of the interaction among the three variables, the same results are also found and the same conclusion can be made accordingly. This research study can act as a reference for the interface design of medical equipment in events where medical staff wear protective eyewear for a long period of time.
33782759 Declarations Disclosures References Historically our institution has required prospective bariatric patients attend an in-person introductory seminar prior to their first clinic visit. Utilization of the internet has increased dramatically over the last 10 years and in 2016, we added an online seminar. With the emergence of COVID-19 and new rules regarding social distancing, we are currently relying exclusively on web-based orientation. Research suggests there are racial and socioeconomic disparities in the utilization of internet health resources in the general population. To our knowledge this has not been studied in regard to the bariatric population. A retrospective chart review was performed on patients who attended online (OS) and in-person seminars (IPS). Our primary endpoint was to compare the percentage of patients who underwent surgery. Secondary outcomes included differences in demographic and clinical characteristics between the patients who attended the OS versus the IPS. Of the 1152 patients who attended a bariatric orientation, 71.2% scheduled an office visit. The IPS patients had a higher rate of office visits and shorter time between orientation and first visit. Of patients eligible for surgery, there was a higher percentage of Caucasians in the OS group while the IPS group had higher rates of Hispanic and African Americans. Patients from the OS group had higher rates of marriage and employment, and lower rates of medical co-morbidities. When controlling for age, sex, race/ethnicity, marital status, employment status and medical co-morbidities, there was no significant impact of type of orientation on progression to surgery. We found that there was no difference in progression to surgery between the two orientation groups. Importantly, however, we detected marked demographic and clinical differences between the two patient populations. There is an urgent need to address these disparities as we are now heavily relying on patient outreach and education via the internet. The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s00464-021-08453-7 .
32878481 References 
33439908 References Sex is increasingly recognized as an important factor in the epidemiology and outcome of many diseases. This also appears to hold for coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). Evidence from China and Europe has suggested that mortality from COVID-19 infection is higher in men than women, but evidence from US populations is lacking. Utilizing data from a large healthcare provider, we determined if males, as compared to females have a higher likelihood of SARS-CoV-2 susceptibility, and if among the hospitalized COVID-19 patients, male sex is independently associated with COVID-19 severity and poor in-hospital outcomes. Using the Strengthening the Reporting of Observational Studies in Epidemiology (STROBE) guidelines, we conducted a cross-sectional analysis of data from a COVID-19 Surveillance and Outcomes Registry (CURATOR). Data were extracted from Electronic Medical Records (EMR). A total of 96,473 individuals tested for SARS-CoV-2 RNA in nasopharyngeal swab specimens via Polymerized Chain Reaction (PCR) tests were included. For hospital-based analyses, all patients admitted during the same time-period were included. Of the 96,473 patients tested, 14,992 (15.6%) tested positive, of whom 4,785 (31.9%) were hospitalized and 452 (9.5%) died. Among all patients tested, men were significantly older. The overall SARS-CoV-2 positivity among all tested individuals was 15.5%, and was higher in males as compared to females 17.0% vs. 14.6% [OR 1.20]. This sex difference held after adjusting for age, race, ethnicity, marital status, insurance type, median income, BMI, smoking and 17 comorbidities included in Charlson Comorbidity Index (CCI) [aOR 1.39]. A higher proportion of males (vs. females) experienced pulmonary (ARDS, hypoxic respiratory failure) and extra-pulmonary (acute renal injury) complications during their hospital course. After adjustment, length of stay (LOS), need for mechanical ventilation, and in-hospital mortality were significantly higher in males as compared to females. In this analysis of a large US cohort, males were more likely to test positive for COVID-19. In hospitalized patients, males were more likely to have complications, require ICU admission and mechanical ventilation, and had higher mortality than females, independent of age. Sex disparities in COVID-19 vulnerability are present, and emphasize the importance of examining sex-disaggregated data to improve our understanding of the biological processes involved to potentially tailor treatment and risk stratify patients.
32996588 References COVID-19 first appeared in Iran on 19 February 2020, and then spread rapidly over the country. In this article, we review the action plan of the Iranian Blood Transfusion Organization with respect to this disease. We collected data on blood donations and RBC inventory for the first 8 weeks of the outbreak. We also evaluated the trend of blood donations and RBC inventory and compared them with the data of the past year. We include a summary of actions taken by the National Committee on Management of COVID-19 outbreak. Blood donations decreased from 33 275 to 23 465 units during the first 2 weeks of the outbreak with a corresponding decrease in the RBC inventory. But after that, donations gradually increased from 23 465 to 29 665 units. RBC inventory levels improved at the same time. Then, the Iranian New Year's holiday resulted in another downward trend. After the holiday, blood donations revived, along with the RBC inventory. Although it appears that this virus cannot be transmitted through transfusion, changes in lifestyle had a significant impact on reducing blood supply. Following implemented measures, we saw an upward trend in blood donations and an adequate supply of RBC units in blood centres, helped by a reduction in demand by hospitals. Blood centres need to be more prepared to manage future viral disasters, especially in case of transfusion-transmissible infections.
33315061  Risk of reinfection with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is unknown. We assessed risk and incidence rate of documented SARS-CoV-2 reinfection in a cohort of laboratory-confirmed cases in Qatar. All SARS-CoV-2 laboratory-confirmed cases with at least one PCR positive swab that is >=45 days after a first-positive swab were individually investigated for evidence of reinfection, and classified as showing strong, good, some, or weak/no evidence for reinfection. Viral genome sequencing of the paired first-positive and reinfection viral specimens was conducted to confirm reinfection. Risk and incidence rate of reinfection were estimated. Out of 133,266 laboratory-confirmed SARS-CoV-2 cases, 243 persons (0.18%) had at least one subsequent positive swab >=45 days after the first-positive swab. Of these, 54 cases (22.2%) had strong or good evidence for reinfection. Median time between first and reinfection swab was 64.5 days (range: 45-129). Twenty-three of the 54 cases (42.6%) were diagnosed at a health facility suggesting presence of symptoms, while 31 (57.4%) were identified incidentally through random testing campaigns/surveys or contact tracing. Only one person was hospitalized at time of reinfection, but was discharged the next day. No deaths were recorded. Viral genome sequencing confirmed four reinfections out of 12 cases with available genetic evidence. Reinfection risk was estimated at 0.02% (95% CI: 0.01-0.02%) and reinfection incidence rate at 0.36 (95% CI: 0.28-0.47) per 10,000 person-weeks. SARS-CoV-2 reinfection can occur but is a rare phenomenon suggestive of protective immunity against reinfection that lasts for at least a few months post primary infection.
34145263 Author contributions Data availability Competing interests References In addition to severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), humans are also susceptible to six other coronaviruses, for which consecutive exposures to antigenically related and divergent seasonal coronaviruses are frequent. Despite the prevalence of COVID-19 pandemic and ongoing research, the nature of the antibody response against severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is unclear. Here we longitudinally profile the early humoral immune response against SARS-CoV-2 in hospitalized coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) patients and quantify levels of pre-existing immunity to OC43, HKU1 and 229E seasonal coronaviruses, and find a strong back-boosting effect to conserved but not variable regions of OC43 and HKU1 betacoronaviruses spike protein. However, such antibody memory boost to human coronaviruses negatively correlates with the induction of IgG and IgM against SARS-CoV-2 spike and nucleocapsid protein. Our findings thus provide evidence of immunological imprinting by previous seasonal coronavirus infections that can potentially modulate the antibody profile to SARS-CoV-2 infection. In addition to SARS-CoV-2, other coronaviruses also infect human, but whether consecutive infections cross-modulate the induced immune response is still unclear. Here the authors show that SARS-CoV-2 infection boosts pre-existing responses to other coronaviruses, yet such back-boosting hampers the induction of specific antibodies against SARS-CoV-2.
34127735 Author contributions Funding Data availability Competing interests References Lifestyle interventions involving exercise training offset the adverse effects of androgen deprivation therapy in men with prostate cancer. Yet provision of integrated exercise pathways in cancer care is sparse. This study assessed the feasibility and acceptability of an embedded supervised exercise training intervention into standard prostate cancer care in a single-arm, multicentre prospective cohort study. Feasibility included recruitment, retention, adherence, fidelity and safety. Acceptability of behaviourally informed healthcare and exercise professional training was assessed qualitatively. Despite the imposition of lockdown for the COVID-19 pandemic, referral rates into and adherence to, the intervention was high. Of the 45 men eligible for participation, 79% (n = 36) received the intervention and 47% (n = 21) completed the intervention before a government mandated national lockdown was enforced in the United Kingdom. Patients completed a mean of 27 min of aerobic exercise per session (SD = 3.48), at 77% heart rate maximum (92% of target dose), and 3 sets of 10 reps of 3 resistance exercises twice weekly for 12 weeks, without serious adverse event. The intervention was delivered by 26 healthcare professionals and 16 exercise trainers with moderate to high fidelity, and the intervention was deemed highly acceptable to patients. The impact of societal changes due to the pandemic on the delivery of this face-to-face intervention remain uncertain but positive impacts of embedding exercise provision into prostate cancer care warrant long-term investigation.
34219197 Authors' contribution Funding Availability of data and materials Declarations Conflict of interest Research involving human participants Ethics approval and consent to participate Consent for publication References Major surgical societies advised using non-operative management of appendicitis and suggested against laparoscopy during the COVID-19 pandemic. The hypothesis is that a significant reduction in the number of emergent appendectomies was observed during the pandemic, restricted to complex cases. The study aimed to analyse emergent surgical appendectomies during pandemic on a national basis and compare it to the same period of the previous year. This is a multicentre, retrospective, observational study investigating the outcomes of patients undergoing emergent appendectomy in March-April 2019 vs March-April 2020. The primary outcome was the number of appendectomies performed, classified according to the American Association for the Surgery of Trauma (AAST) score. Secondary outcomes were the type of surgical technique employed (laparoscopic vs open) and the complication rates. One thousand five hundred forty one patients with acute appendicitis underwent surgery during the two study periods. 1337 (86.8%) patients met the inclusion criteria: 546 (40.8%) patients underwent surgery for acute appendicitis in 2020 and 791 (59.2%) in 2019. According to AAST, patients with complicated appendicitis operated in 2019 were 30.3% vs 39.9% in 2020 (p = 0.001). We observed an increase in the number of post-operative complications in 2020 (15.9%) compared to 2019 (9.6%) (p < 0.001). The following determinants increased the likelihood of complication occurrence: undergoing surgery during 2020 (+ 67%), the increase of a unit in the AAST score (+ 26%), surgery performed > 24 h after admission (+ 58%), open surgery (+ 112%) and conversion to open surgery (+ 166%). In Italian hospitals, in March and April 2020, the number of appendectomies has drastically dropped. During the first pandemic wave, patients undergoing surgery were more frequently affected by more severe appendicitis than the previous year's timeframe and experienced a higher number of complications. Trial registration number and date: Research Registry ID 5789, May 7th, 2020
32759252 References Our objective was to review the literature on the inferred duration of the infectious period of COVID-19, caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) virus, and provide an overview of the variation depending on the methodological approach. Rapid scoping review. Literature review with fixed search terms, up to 1 April 2020. Central tendency and variation of the parameter estimates for infectious period in (A) asymptomatic and (B) symptomatic cases from (1) virological studies (repeated testing), (2) tracing studies and (3) modelling studies were gathered. Narrative review of viral dynamics. Search strategies developed and the following searched: PubMed, Google Scholar, MedRxiv and BioRxiv. Additionally, the Health Information Quality Authority (Ireland) viral load synthesis was used, which screened literature from PubMed, Embase, ScienceDirect, NHS evidence, Cochrane, medRxiv and bioRxiv, and HRB open databases. There was substantial variation in the estimates, and how infectious period was inferred. One study provided approximate median infectious period for asymptomatic cases of 6.5-9.5 days. Median presymptomatic infectious period across studies varied over <1-4 days. Estimated mean time from symptom onset to two negative RT-PCR tests was 13.4 days (95% CI 10.9 to 15.8) but was shorter when studies included children or less severe cases. Estimated mean duration from symptom onset to hospital discharge or death (potential maximal infectious period) was 18.1 days (95% CI 15.1 to 21.0); time to discharge was on average 4 days shorter than time to death. Viral dynamic data and model infectious parameters were often shorter than repeated diagnostic data. There are limitations of inferring infectiousness from repeated diagnosis, viral loads and viral replication data alone and also potential patient recall bias relevant to estimating exposure and symptom onset times. Despite this, available data provide a preliminary evidence base to inform models of central tendency for key parameters and variation for exploring parameter space and sensitivity analysis.
34988861 Author contribution Data availability Declarations Conflict of interest References COVID-19 infection led to a substantial overhaul of the symptomatic breast services within the UK. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the pattern of primary care referrals to the symptomatic one-stop clinic during the pandemic. This study also provides a snapshot of the workings of symptomatic breast services and the scope for improvements. The data points were collected for 1 month during the peak of the pandemic (April 2020) and compared to corresponding data points for the same month in the previous year (April 2019). This was compared to the monthly data from Wales Cancer Network (WCN) data source. A hundred patients from each month over 2 years were evaluated to get a snapshot into the working of the breast clinic. A total of 516 patients were referred from primary care or General Practitioners (GPs), and were seen in the Hospital 'one-stop breast clinic' in April 2019. This number dropped to 330 patients during the peak of the pandemic in April 2020. Ninety percent of referrals from the GP were urgent suspected cancers or urgent referrals. This trend of referrals did not change over 2 years. There was a 5% and 7% cancer diagnosis rate in 2020 and 2019, respectively. Most patients were referred from GP as 'urgent' or 'urgent suspected cancer'. The cancer diagnosis rate reduced from 7 to 5% during the pandemic peak but the number of 'worried well' patients did not reduce. The total number of referrals reduced, which is predictive of increased demand in the future. The authors have suggested ways to meet this demand.
35383994  -
33424954 REFERENCES The progression of COVID-19 worldwide can be tracked by identifying mutations within the genomic sequence of SARS-CoV-2 that occur as a function of time. Such efforts currently rely on sequencing the genome of SARS-CoV-2 in patient specimens (direct sequencing) or of virus isolated from patient specimens in cell cultures. A pilot SARS-CoV-2 air sampling study conducted at a clinic within a university student health care center detected the virus vRNA, with an estimated concentration of 0.87 virus genomes L-1 air. To determine whether the virus detected was viable ('live'), attempts were made to isolate the virus in cell cultures. Virus-induced cytopathic effects (CPE) were observed within two days post-inoculation of Vero E6 cells with collection media from air samples; however, rtRT-PCR tests for SARS-CoV-2 vRNA from cell culture were negative. Instead, three other fast-growing human respiratory viruses were isolated and subsequently identified, illustrating the challenge in isolating SARS-CoV-2 when multiple viruses are present in a test sample. The complete SAR-CoV-2 genomic sequence was nevertheless determined by Sanger sequencing and most closely resembles SARS-CoV-2 genomes previously described in Georgia, USA. Results of this study illustrate the feasibility of tracking progression of the COVID-19 pandemic using environmental aerosol samples instead of human specimens. Collection of a positive sample from a distance more than 2 m away from the nearest patient traffic implies the virus was in an aerosol.
33963250 Author contributions Funding Data availability Competing interests References The mortality rates of COVID-19 vary across the globe. While some risk factors for poor prognosis of the disease are known, regional differences are suspected. We reviewed the risk factors for critical outcomes of COVID-19 according to the location of the infected patients, from various literature databases from January 1 through June 8, 2020. Candidate variables to predict the outcome included patient demographics, underlying medical conditions, symptoms, and laboratory findings. The risk factors in the overall population included sex, age, and all inspected underlying medical conditions. Symptoms of dyspnea, anorexia, dizziness, fatigue, and certain laboratory findings were also indicators of the critical outcome. Underlying respiratory disease was associated higher risk of the critical outcome in studies from Asia and Europe, but not North America. Underlying hepatic disease was associated with a higher risk of the critical outcome from Europe, but not from Asia and North America. Symptoms of vomiting, anorexia, dizziness, and fatigue were significantly associated with the critical outcome in studies from Asia, but not from Europe and North America. Hemoglobin and platelet count affected patients differently in Asia compared to those in Europe and North America. Such regional discrepancies should be considered when treating patients with COVID-19.
34881119 Human Ethics References As the COVID-19 pandemic evolves, the medical community continues to report a variety of clinical manifestations of SARS-CoV-2 in the pediatric population. Although younger age groups experience less severe disease, attention is given to the immunologic manifestations of the disease. Pericarditis is a rare cardiac complication of COVID-19 infection. We discuss the first case of delayed presentation of pericarditis following recovery from COVID-19 infection in the pediatric population. A 15-year-old male adolescent presented to the emergency department (ED) with a two-day history of left-sided, sub-sternal chest pain that worsened during inspiration and a low-grade fever. Twenty days prior to this presentation, the patient experienced fever and was tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. His family history was remarkable for Hashimoto thyroiditis and rheumatoid arthritis, with his mother having experienced 18 episodes of pericarditis during the exacerbations of her disease. RT-PCR for SARS-CoV-2 was negative on this occasion and the serology assay identified positive IgG antibodies against the virus. The ECG was suggestive for pericarditis and the diagnosis was confirmed by the presence of pericardial effusion on ECHO. The rest of the aetiological investigations for pericarditis were negative. In view of the strong family history of autoimmunity, questions were raised in the medical team of our hospital regarding the etiology of his pericarditis and on whether it represented a postinflammatory immune-mediated presentation of SARS-CoV-2 or a new-onset autoimmune disease.
34622966 BIBLIOGRAPHY To investigate the presence, degree, predictors, and trajectory of dysphagia, dysphonia, and dysarthria among adults hospitalized with COVID-19 across the Republic of Ireland (ROI) during the first wave of the pandemic. Prospective observational cohort study. Adults with confirmed COVID-19 who were admitted into 14 participating acute hospitals across ROI and referred to speech and language therapy between March 1st and June 30th, 2020 were recruited. Outcomes obtained at initial SLT evaluation and at discharge were oral intake status (Functional Oral Intake Scale), perceptual voice quality (GRBAS), and global dysarthria rating (Dysarthria Severity Scale). Data from 315 adults were analyzed. At initial SLT assessment, 84% required modified oral diets, and 31% required tube feeding. There were high rates of dysphonia (42%) and dysarthria (23%). History of intubation (OR 19.959, 95% CI 6.272, 63.513; P = .000), COVID-19 neurological manifestations (OR 3.592, 95% CI 1.733, 7.445; P = .001), and age (OR 1.034; 95% CI 1.002, 1.066; P = .036) were predictive of oral intake status. History of intubation was predictive of voice quality (OR 4.250, 95% CI 1.838, 9.827; P = .001) and COVID-19 neurological manifestations were predictive of dysarthria (OR 2.275; 95% CI 1.162, 4.456; P = .017). At discharge, there were significant improvements in oral intake (Z = -7.971; P = .000), voice quality (Z = -5.971; P = .000), and dysarthria severity (Z = -2.619; P = .009), although need for modified oral intake (59%), dysphonia (23%), and dysarthria (14%) persisted. Dysphagia, dysphonia, and dysarthria were widespread among adults hospitalized with COVID-19 and they persisted for many at discharge. Prompt SLT evaluation is required to minimize complications. 3 Laryngoscope, 2021
32897869 Abbreviations Cybersecurity threats are estimated to cost the world US $6 trillion a year by 2021, and the number of attacks has increased five-fold after COVID-19. Although there is substantial literature on the threats technological vulnerabilities have on the health care industry, less research exists on how pandemics like COVID-19 are opportunistic for cybercriminals. This paper outlines why cyberattacks have been particularly problematic during COVID-19 and ways that health care industries can better protect patient data. The Office for Civil Rights has loosened enforcement of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, which, although useful in using new platforms like Zoom, has also loosened physical and technical safeguards to cyberattacks. This is especially problematic given that 90% of health care providers had already encountered data breaches. Companies must implement well-defined software upgrade procedures, should use secure networks like virtual local area networks, and conduct regular penetration tests of their systems. By understanding factors that make individuals, health care organizations, and employers more susceptible to cyberattacks, we can better prepare for the next pandemic.
33692744 References SARS-CoV2 infection can lead to a prothrombotic state. Large vessel occlusion, as well as malignant cerebral stroke have been described in COVID-19 patients. In the following months, given the increase in COVID-19 cases, an increase in malignant cerebral SARS-CoV2 associated strokes are expected. The baseline situation of the patients as well as the risk of evolution to a serious disease due to the virus, depict a unique scenario. Decompressive craniectomy is a life-saving procedure indicated in patients who suffer a malignant cerebral stroke; however, it is unclear whether the same eligibility criteria should be used for patients with COVID-19. To our knowledge seven cases of decompressive craniectomy and malignant cerebral stroke have been described to date. We report on a 39-year-old female with no major risk factors for cerebrovascular disease, apart from oral contraception, and mild COVID-19 symptoms who suffered from left hemispheric syndrome. The patient underwent endovascular treatment with stenting and afterward decompressive craniectomy due to a worsening neurological status with unilateral unreactive mydriasis. We present the case and provide a comprehensive review of the available literature related to the surgical treatment for COVID-19 associated malignant strokes, to establish whether the same eligibility criteria for non-COVID-19 associated strokes should be used. Eight patients, including our case, were surgically managed due to malignant cerebral stroke. Seven of these patients received decompressive craniectomy, and six of them met the eligibility criteria of the current stroke guidelines. The mortality rate was 33%, similar to that described in non-COVID-19 cases. Two patients had a left middle cerebral artery (MCA) and both survived after decompressive craniectomy. Our results support that decompressive craniectomy, using the current stroke guidelines, should be considered an effective life-saving treatment for COVID-19-related malignant cerebral strokes.
32659213 References 
32621859 References A narrative review of the emerging literature on the challenges of pregnant women protection during COVID-19 infection was conducted. Most review studies presented that no vertical transmission of COVID-19 from pregnant women to neonates was found. Potential risks of vertical transmission of COVID-19 remain with pregnant women and neonates. Special care has been suggested for pregnant women with COVID-19. This paper presents a narrative review study of 5 popular data repositories focusing on challenges of pregnant women protection during the COVID-19 pandemic. The study concludes that the likelihood of a vertical transmission of COVID-19 infection from pregnant women to neonates was not observed. Nevertheless, it remains a serious risk for them during their earlier stage of pregnancy, thus, special attention from health professionals has been recommended.
34493506 References The COVID-19 pandemic has driven unprecedented social and economic reform in efforts to curb the impact of disease. Governments worldwide have legislated non-essential service shutdowns and adapted essential service provision in order to minimise face-to-face contact. We anticipate major consequences resulting from such policies, with marginalised populations expected to bear the greatest burden of such measures, especially those with substance use disorders (SUDs). We aim to conduct (1) a scoping review to summarise the available evidence evaluating the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on patients with SUDs, and (2) an evidence map to visually plot and categorise the current available evidence evaluating the impact of COVID-19 on patients with SUDs to identify gaps in addressing high-risk populations. Ethics approval is not required for this scoping review as we plan to review publicly available data. This is part of a multistep project, whereby we intend to use the findings generated from this review in combination with data from an ongoing prospective cohort study our team is leading, encompassing over 2000 patients with SUDs receiving medication-assisted therapy in Ontario prior to and during the COVID-19 pandemic.
33651340 Author contributions Funding Data availability Declaration Ethical approval Consent to participate References To evaluate the pain and functional effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on patients with ASD reflected by their response to SRS-22, ODI, and SF-36 questionnaires. Patients who had stable pain and functional outcome scores over the preceding 2 years were enrolled in a local prospectively collected adult spinal deformity (ASD) database. A reanalysis of their SRS22, ODI and SF-36 data 14 days into confinement were compared to their last pre-confinement scores. 89 patients were included in this study (average age 60.7 years, 91% female) with an average time from last FU until confinement of 9.6 months. The ODI total score worsened by 5 points post-confinement with no difference seen in personal care, walking and social life. In contrast, the SRS-22 score showed small improvements in function/activity and satisfaction, but no significant differences for the other domains. Similarly, the SF-36 showed small improvements in physical function, physical and emotional role, vitality and PCS. The global COVID-19 pandemic and ensuing confinement had variable overall effects on ASD patients, without the expected marked worsening. In addition, this study illustrates that the SRS-22 questionnaire is less influenced by environmental and psychological factors than the ODI supporting its objectivity and accuracy in the evaluation of the QoL of ASD patients.
32610808 References As the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic continues to unfold there is an untold number of trade-offs being made in every country around the globe. The experience in the United Kingdom and Canada to date has not seen much uptake of health economics methods. We provide some thoughts on how this could take place, specifically in three areas. Firstly, this can involve understanding the impact of lockdown policies on national productivity. Secondly, there is great importance in studying trade-offs with respect to enhancing health system capacity and the impact of the mix of private-public financing. Finally, there are key trade-offs that will continue to be made both in terms of access to testing and ventilators which would benefit greatly from economic appraisal. In short, health economics could - and we would argue most certainly should - play a much more prominent role in policy-making as it relates to the current as well as future pandemics.
33542501 References Original article 
34107113  Studies have shown that some cytokines in COVID-19 patients were elevated. This study aims to assess whether IL-10, IL-1beta, IL-6, MCP-1, TNF-alpha, IP-10 and IL-4 serve as potential diagnostic biomarkers of COVID-19. The above serum cytokines in COVID-19 patients and non COVID-19 patients were detected by ELISA, SARS-CoV-2 IgM and IgG were detected by chemiluminescence method. Independent-samples Mann-Whitney U-test was utilized to compare cytokines levels in different groups and course, Levene T-test, T'-test were utilized to compare they in different genders, and Spearman Correlation test was utilized to analyze the correlation between the cytokines levels with ages, SARS-CoV-2 IgG and IgM. Serum levels of IL-10, IL-1beta, MCP-1, TNF-alpha and IL-4 in COVID-19 patients were significantly higher than those in non-COVID-19 patients, while IL-6 were only significantly higher than in healthy people, IP-10 were significantly lower than in other diseases patients. AUCs of COVID-19 diagnosed by IL-10, IL-1beta, IL-6, MCP-1, TNF-alpha, IP-10 and IL-4 were 0.735, 0.775, 0.595, 0.821, 0.848, 0.387 and 0.682, respectively. In COVID-19 patients' serum, the levels of IL-10 and MCP-1 of male had noticeably higher than those of female, and all cytokines were significantly positively correlated with age, IL-1beta and IL-4 were significantly negatively correlated with SARS-CoV-2 IgM, while IL-10, IL-1beta, IL-6, TNF-alpha and IP-10 were significantly negatively correlated with SARS-CoV-2 IgG. IL-10 on 43-56 days were significantly lower than at 29-42 days, TNF-alpha at 15-42 days were significantly higher than at 0-14 days, IP-10 at 0-14 days were the highest, IL-4 at 29-42 days were significant higher than on 0-14 days. The detection of IL-10, IL-1 beta, IL-6, MCP-1, TNF-alpha and IL-4 would assist the clinical study of COVID-19, and IP-10 may be the cytokine `of early elevation in COVID-19 patients.
35308830  Cellular therapies, deemed live medicine, have brought a wave of new generation biological therapies to treat previously untreatable diseases such as cancers and degenerative diseases like osteoarthritis. These cellular therapies have gained significant recognition in clinical research. The area has been further strengthened with the approval of Chimeric Antigen Receptor added on T cells (CAR-T) therapies by the regulatory authorities USA's Food and Drugs Administration (FDA), European Medical Agency (EMA), the Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA), and in many countries in 2017 to treat hematological cancers. Another milestone was achieved when allogeneic Mesenchymal Stem Cell- (MSC-) based therapy was approved by the EMA to treat Chrohn's disease in 2018. Allogeneic donor-derived MSC therapies in particular hold great promise and real hope because of their 'off-the shelf' availability and accessibility for patients in need of urgent treatment. So far, thousands of clinical trials have explored the safety and efficacy of both autologous and allogeneic cell therapies, deeming them safe, however with varying degrees of efficacy. In the current pandemic, clinical trials have begun in many parts of the world to treat severe cases of COVID with MSCs. However, the risk of tissue rejection and the development of undesirable effects due to alloreactivity of allogeneic cells are currently not adequately addressed. Therefore, this warrants careful investigation and detailed reporting of such events by clinical researchers. This review aims at discussing the current landscape of approved allogeneic MSCs along with a few other cellular therapies. We explore any possible reactivity reported to inform the readers of any safety concern and on the efficacy of such therapies.
33920976 Supplementary Materials Author Contributions Funding Institutional Review Board Statement Informed Consent Statement Data Availability Statement Conflicts of Interest Abbreviations Appendix A References The COVID-19 global pandemic has resulted in a large number of people suffering from emotional problems. However, the mechanisms by which intolerance of uncertainty (IU) affects negative emotions during the COVID-19 pandemic remain unclear. This study aimed to explore the mediating role of pandemic-focused time and the moderating role of perceived efficacy in the association between IU and negative emotions during the COVID-19 pandemic based on the uncertainty-time-efficacy-emotion model (UTEE). 1131 participants were recruited to complete measures of COVID-19 IU, pandemic-focused time, perceived efficacy, negative emotions and demographic variables during the COVID-19 pandemic. The results showed that COVID-19 IU was significantly and positively associated with negative emotions, and this link could be mediated by pandemic-focused time. Moreover, the direct effect of COVID-19 IU on negative emotions was moderated by perceived efficacy. Specifically, the direct effect of COVID-19 IU on negative emotions was much stronger for individuals with lower levels of perceived efficacy. The current study further extended the previous integrative uncertainty tolerance model. Furthermore, the study suggested that policy makers and mental health professionals should reduce the general public's negative emotions during the pandemic through effective interventions such as adjusting COVID-19 IU, shortening pandemic-focused time and enhancing perceived efficacy.
34630838  Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) caused by the novel coronavirus, has affected many lives, health systems and economies across the globe. Countries in both resource-rich and poor have equally been affected. In Ghana, COVID-19 has caused morbidity and mortality among the populace. The first two cases of COVID-19 were reported in Ghana in March 2020. At the onset of the pandemic in Ghana, there were challenges in securing isolation centers and quarantine facilities. Nonetheless, the government of Ghana put in place a number of measures in line with World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines, to halt the spread of the virus. Some measures taken by the government included partial lockdown of areas deemed hotspots for the spread of the virus. In April 2020, Ghana was ranked number one among African countries in administering tests per million people, because of the effective "trace and test" approach. The government of Ghana also encouraged local manufacturing of personal protective equipment, antivirals and hand sanitizers to help meet the demand of the nation. There were also restrictions on public gathering within the early parts of 2020, and these were eased with time. In February 2021, Ghana became the first country to receive vaccines through the COVAX initiative with a delivery of 600,000 doses of Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccines. The efforts by Ghana to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic have been commendable. Not withstanding, the adverse impact of the COVID-19 on public health in Ghana has been significant, and there is still a lot to learn from other countries in the sub-region, and the world as whole.
34101084 Funding Interessenkonflikt Literatur Mit dieser Studie wurden die Effekte chirurgischer MNS auf die korperliche Leistungsfahigkeit sowie das subjektive Belastungsempfinden bei trainierten elfjahrigen Jungen untersucht. Im aeroben und aerob-anaeroben Ubergangsbereich fand sich keine Verminderung der objektiven Leistungsparameter. Allerdings zeigte sich auf der maximalen Belastungsstufe mit MNS eine signifikante Verminderung der Laufzeit sowie eine signifikante Erhohung des subjektiven Belastungsempfindens bei ansonsten unveranderten Leistungsparametern. Zusammenfassend beeinflusst die Verwendung chirurgischer ,,Alltags"-MNS bei Kindern die sportlichen Aktivitaten nicht, solange die Belastungen primar im aeroben Intensitatsbereich durchgefuhrt werden.
32132521 References Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), formerly known as severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) and 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV), was first identified in December 2019 in Wuhan City, China. Structural equation modeling (SEM) is a multivariate analysis method to determine the structural relationship between measured variables. This observational study aimed to use SEM to determine the effects of social support on sleep quality and function of medical staff who treated patients with COVID-19 in January and February 2020 in Wuhan, China. A one-month cross-sectional observational study included 180 medical staff who treated patients with COVID-19 infection. Levels of anxiety, self-efficacy, stress, sleep quality, and social support were measured using the and the Self-Rating Anxiety Scale (SAS), the General Self-Efficacy Scale (GSES), the Stanford Acute Stress Reaction (SASR) questionnaire, the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), and the Social Support Rate Scale (SSRS), respectively. Pearson's correlation analysis and SEM identified the interactions between these factors. Levels of social support for medical staff were significantly associated with self-efficacy and sleep quality and negatively associated with the degree of anxiety and stress. Levels of anxiety were significantly associated with the levels of stress, which negatively impacted self-efficacy and sleep quality. Anxiety, stress, and self-efficacy were mediating variables associated with social support and sleep quality. SEM showed that medical staff in China who were treating patients with COVID-19 infection during January and February 2020 had levels of anxiety, stress, and self-efficacy that were dependent on sleep quality and social support.
33418280 References 
34178332 REFERENCES COVID-19 could potentially lead to the progression of the course of undiagnosed type 1 diabetes in an infected individuals. COVID-19 could potentially lead to the progression of the course of undiagnosed type 1 diabetes in an infected individuals.
33433382 References Post-Traumatic stress disorder is common in coronavirus outbreaks. Mental care is important during the present COVID-19 pandemic. This study showed about 3 in every 10 survivors of Coronavirus had PTSD symptoms. This study showed about 2 in every 10 healthcare workers had PTSD symptoms. : Infectious disease outbreaks affect physical and mental health of humans worldwide. Studies showed that the prevalence of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptoms increased in these conditions. This systematic-review and meta-analysis aimed to assess the prevalence of PTSD related symptoms in coronavirus outbreaks. : Systematic search of literature was conducted in Scopus, Embase, PubMed, and Web of Science. Google Scholar and Grey literature including conference proceedings were also checked. Published articles from November 1, 2012 until May 18, 2020 were searched. Subgroup analysis, meta-regression and sensitivity analysis were also conducted to assess heterogeneity. : We found 38 articles with 19,428 individuals met the eligibility criteria. Of these papers, 35 studies were included in meta-analysis. The prevalence of PTSD symptoms was estimated to be about 18% (95%CI: 15% to 20%). These symptoms were more frequent in cohort studies (29%) compared to cross-sectional (15%) and case-control (11%) studies. Prevalence rates of PTSD symptoms in MERS (36%) outbreaks were higher than SARS (18%) and COVID-19 (9%) outbreaks. Meta-regression showed that the geographical location of study was the source of heterogeneity (R2: 19.8%, P-value: 0.003). Meta-analysis reported that about three in every ten survivors of coronavirus infection, about two in every ten healthcare workers, and about one in every ten individuals of general population experienced PTSD symptoms in outbreaks. : PTSD cannot be objectively assessed and this can lead to information bias of included studies. : PTSD symptoms are shown to be common in coronavirus outbreaks. Mental care should be, therefore, considered in the present COVID-19 pandemic.
35332270 References Original article An in vitro study shows that activated coagulation factors can promote SARS-CoV-2 infection by cleaving spike.
32708803 Author Contributions Funding Conflicts of Interest References This generation faces existential threats because of the global assault of the novel Corona virus 2019 (i.e., COVID-19). With more than thirteen million infected and nearly 600000 fatalities in 188 countries/regions, COVID-19 is the worst calamity since the World War II. These misfortunes are traced to various reasons, including late detection of latent or asymptomatic carriers, migration, and inadequate isolation of infected people. This makes detection, containment, and mitigation global priorities to contain exposure via quarantine, lockdowns, work/stay at home, and social distancing that are focused on "flattening the curve". While medical and healthcare givers are at the frontline in the battle against COVID-19, it is a crusade for all of humanity. Meanwhile, machine and deep learning models have been revolutionary across numerous domains and applications whose potency have been exploited to birth numerous state-of-the-art technologies utilised in disease detection, diagnoses, and treatment. Despite these potentials, machine and, particularly, deep learning models are data sensitive, because their effectiveness depends on availability and reliability of data. The unavailability of such data hinders efforts of engineers and computer scientists to fully contribute to the ongoing assault against COVID-19. Faced with a calamity on one side and absence of reliable data on the other, this study presents two data-augmentation models to enhance learnability of the Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) and the Convolutional Long Short-Term Memory (ConvLSTM)-based deep learning models (DADLMs) and, by doing so, boost the accuracy of COVID-19 detection. Experimental results reveal improvement in terms of accuracy of detection, logarithmic loss, and testing time relative to DLMs devoid of such data augmentation. Furthermore, average increases of 4% to 11% in COVID-19 detection accuracy are reported in favour of the proposed data-augmented deep learning models relative to the machine learning techniques. Therefore, the proposed algorithm is effective in performing a rapid and consistent Corona virus diagnosis that is primarily aimed at assisting clinicians in making accurate identification of the virus.
34405427 REFERENCES Public health responses to reduce SARS-CoV-2 transmission have profoundly affected the epidemiology and management of other infections. We examined the impact of COVID-19 restrictions on antibiotic dispensing in Australia. We used national claims data to investigate antibiotic dispensing trends from November 2015 to October 2020 and whether changes reflected reductions in primary care consultations. We used interrupted time series analysis to quantify changes in monthly antibiotic dispensing and face-to-face and telehealth GP consultations and examined changes by recipient age, pharmacy State and prescriber specialty. Over the study period, an estimated 19 921 370 people had 125 495 137 antibiotic dispensings, 71% prescribed by GPs. Following COVID-19 restrictions, we observed a sustained 36% (95% CI: 33-40%) reduction in antibiotic dispensings from April 2020. Antibiotics recommended for managing respiratory tract infections showed large reductions (range 51-69%), whereas those recommended for non-respiratory infections were unchanged. Dispensings prescribed by GPs decreased from 63.5 per 1000 population for April-October 2019 to 37.0 per 1000 for April-October 2020. Total GP consultation rates remained stable, but from April 2020, 31% of consultations were telehealth. In a setting with a low COVID-19 incidence, restrictions were associated with a substantial reduction in community dispensings of antibiotics primarily used to treat respiratory infections, coincident with reported reductions in respiratory viral infections. Our findings are informative for post-pandemic antimicrobial stewardship and highlight the potential to reduce inappropriate prescribing by GPs and specialists for respiratory viral infections.
33768363 Funding Availability of data and material Code availability Declaration Conflict of interest References The COVID-19 crisis has called into question the utilitarianism-oriented human-wildlife relations and the legitimacy of wildlife protection regime in China. The pandemic has triggered significant, swift, and encompassing changes in policies. Drawing on insights from historical institutionalism, we argue that COVID-19 constitutes a critical juncture in China's wildlife protection policy.
32539647 References 
35145444 References There are concerns that the socioeconomic consequences of COVID-19, including unemployment and financial insecurity, are having adverse effects on the mental wellbeing of the population. One group particularly vulnerable to socioeconomic adversity during this period are those employed freelance within the cultural industry. Many workers in the sector were already subject to income instability, erratic work schedules and a lack of economic security before the pandemic, and it is possible that COVID-19 may exacerbate pre-existing economic precarity. Through interviews with 20 freelancers working within the performing arts, visual arts, and film and television industries, this article explores the impact of the pandemic on their working lives. Findings suggest the pandemic is affecting the psychological wellbeing of freelancers through employment loss, financial instability and work dissonance, and illustrates the need for urgent economic and psychosocial support for those employed within the cultural sector.
34132326  Dimitris and Platt (Am J Epidemiol. XXXX;XXX(XX):XXXX-XXXX) take on the challenging topic of using "shocks" such as the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic as instrumental variables to study the effect of some exposure on some outcome. Evoking our recent lived experiences, they conclude that the assumptions necessary for an instrumental variable analysis will often be violated and therefore strongly caution against such analyses. Here, we build upon this warranted caution while acknowledging that such analyses may still be pursued and conducted. We discuss strategies for evaluating or reasoning about when such an analysis may be clearly inappropriate for a given research question, as well as strategies for interpreting study findings with especial attention to incorporating plausible sources of bias in any conclusions drawn from a given finding.
34867130 Authors' Contributions Funding Data Availability Declarations Conflict of interest References We study the effect of the peptide QAKTFLDKFNHEAEDLFYQ on the kinetics of the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein S1 binding to angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), with the aim to characterize the interaction mechanism of the SARS-CoV2 virus with its host cell. This peptide corresponds to the sequence 24-42 of the ACE2 alpha1 domain, which marks the binding site for the S1 protein. The kinetics of S1-ACE2 complex formation was measured in the presence of various concentrations of the peptide using bio-layer interferometry. Formation of the S1-ACE2 complex was inhibited by the peptide in cases where it was preincubated with S1 protein before the binding experiment. The kinetic analysis of S1-ACE2 complex dissociation revealed that preincubation stabilized this complex, and this effect was dependent on the peptide concentration as well as the preincubation time. The results point to the formation of the ternary complex of S1 with ACE2 and the peptide. This is possible in the presence of another binding site for the S1 protein beside the receptor-binding domain for ACE2, which binds the peptide QAKTFLDKFNHEAEDLFYQ. Therefore, we conducted computational mapping of the S1 protein surface, revealing two additional binding sites located at some distance from the main receptor-binding domain on S1. We suggest the possibility to predict and test the short protein derived peptides for development of novel strategies in inhibiting virus infections. The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s10989-021-10324-7.
35010471 Supplementary Materials Author Contributions Funding Institutional Review Board Statement Informed Consent Statement Data Availability Statement Conflicts of Interest References The healthcare policy changes need to be updated for better management of the COVID-19 outbreak; hence, there is an urgent need to understand the knowledge and preparedness of healthcare workers regarding the infection control COVID-19. Therefore, the present study aims to assess the knowledge and preparedness towards COVID-19 among dentists, undergraduate, and postgraduates in dental universities one year after the COVID-19 outbreak. The multi-centric cross-sectional study was conducted by evaluating 395 structured, pre-coded, and validated questionnaires obtained from sample units comprising full-time dental students (undergraduates, interns, and postgraduates) and dentists who were currently in practice and who were able to comprehend the languages English or Arabic. The first part of the questionnaire included questions related to demographic characteristics. The second part of the survey consisted of questions that address knowledge concerning COVID-19. The third part of the survey addressed questions based on the preparedness to fight against COVID-19 including sharp injuries during this period. Comparing the knowledge scores of dentists, dental undergraduates, and postgraduates using the ANOVA test, dentists have higher knowledge and preparedness scores than postgraduates and undergraduates (p-value < 0.05). Univariate logistic regression analysis demonstrated that undergraduates and postgraduates were 2.567 and 1.352 times less aware of the personal protective measures against COVID-19 than dentists, respectively. Dentists had the comparatively better perception in knowledge and awareness of COVID-19 than undergraduates and postgraduates.
33352250 References Clostridioides difficile infection (CDI) is widespread in hospitals. An important rate reduction in CDI was noticed in a COVID-19 hospital. Better adherence to hand hygiene and contact precautions was noticed. Healthcare facility-onset Clostridioides difficile infection rates substantially dropped in a Mexican hospital after its conversion to a full COVID-19 setting, despite heavy contamination of the environment the previous year. Better adherence to hand hygiene and contact precautions may help explain this finding.
34280115 Abbreviations The control of vaccine hesitancy and the promotion of vaccination are key protective measures against COVID-19. This study assesses the prevalence of vaccine hesitancy and the vaccination rate and examines the association between factors of the health belief model (HBM) and vaccination. A convenience sample of 2531 valid participants from 31 provinces and autonomous regions of mainland China were enrolled in this online survey study from January 1 to 24, 2021. Multivariable logistic regression was used to identify the associations of the vaccination rate and HBM factors with the prevalence of vaccine hesitancy after other covariates were controlled. The prevalence of vaccine hesitancy was 44.3% (95% CI 42.3%-46.2%), and the vaccination rate was 10.4% (9.2%-11.6%). The factors that directly promoted vaccination behavior were a lack of vaccine hesitancy (odds ratio [OR] 7.75, 95% CI 5.03-11.93), agreement with recommendations from friends or family for vaccination (OR 3.11, 95% CI 1.75-5.52), and absence of perceived barriers to COVID-19 vaccination (OR 0.51, 95% CI 0.35-0.75). The factors that were directly associated with a higher vaccine hesitancy rate were a high level of perceived barriers (OR 1.63, 95% CI 1.36-1.95) and perceived benefits (OR 0.51, 95% CI 0.32-0.79). A mediating effect of self-efficacy, influenced by perceived barriers (standardized structure coefficient [SSC]=-0.71, P<.001), perceived benefits (SSC=0.58, P<.001), agreement with recommendations from authorities (SSC=0.27, P<.001), and agreement with recommendations from friends or family (SSC=0.31, P<.001), was negatively associated with vaccination (SSC=-0.45, P<.001) via vaccine hesitancy (SSC=-0.32, P<.001). It may be possible to increase the vaccination rate by reducing vaccine hesitancy and perceived barriers to vaccination and by encouraging volunteers to advocate for vaccination to their friends and family members. It is also important to reduce vaccine hesitancy by enhancing self-efficacy for vaccination, due to its crucial mediating function.
32634111 References The global coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) outbreak has necessitated physical distancing, lockdown, contact tracing, and self-quarantine so as to prevent the spread of the disease. Amid the outbreak, gaming data usage has reportedly increased in the United States, and game download volume has reached a record high in Europe. Because gaming can be used to cope with the psychological stress from the outbreak, therefore mental health professionals should be aware of how increased gaming during the pandemic may contribute to risk of gaming disorder, especially if the pandemic persists. Mental health professionals should thus formulate safe social interaction alternatives for people, particularly adolescents, who have gaming disorder risk.
34790054  As the world is racing to develop perpetual immunity to the SARS-CoV-2 virus. The emergence of new viral strains, together with vaccination and reinfections, are all contributing to a long-term immunity against the deadly virus that has taken over the world since its introduction to humans in late December 2019. The discovery that more than 95 percent of people who recovered from COVID-19 had long-lasting immunity and that asymptomatic people have a different immune response to SARS-CoV-2 than symptomatic people has shifted attention to how our immune system initiates such diverse responses. These findings have provided reason to believe that SARS-CoV-2 days are numbered. Hundreds of research papers have been published on the causes of long-lasting immune responses and variations in the numbers of different immune cell types in COVID 19 survivors, but the main reason of these differences has still not been adequately identified. In this article, we focus on the activation-induced cytidine deaminase (AID), which initiates molecular processes that allow our immune system to generate antibodies against SARS-CoV-2. To establish lasting immunity to SARS-CoV-2, we suggest that AID could be the key to unlocking it.
35006537 Funding Declarations Conflict of interest Human and animal rights Informed consent References 
32632359 References Viral infections cause oxidative stress which may be exaggerated by inflammaging. Oxidative stress coping mechanisms can be affected by genetic/environmental factors. SARS-CoV has been reported to modulate PARP function and thereby NAD + biosynthesis. Cellular homeostasis and redox imbalances by SARS-CoV2 can cause stress responses. Antioxidants such as NAC could limit ROS mediated tissue damage during COVID-19. During the current COVID-19 pandemic, a need for evaluation of already available drugs for treatment of the disease is crucial. Hereby, based on literature review from the current pandemic and previous outbreaks with corona viruses we analyze the impact of the virus infection on cell stress responses and redox balance. High levels of mortality are noticed in elderly individuals infected with SARS-CoV2 and during the previous SARS-CoV1 outbreak. Elderly individuals maintain a chronic low level of inflammation which is associated with oxidative stress and inflammatory cytokine production, a condition that increases the severity of viral infections in this population. Coronavirus infections can lead to alterations of redox balance in infected cells through modulation of NAD + biosynthesis, PARP function along with altering proteasome and mitochondrial function in the cell thereby leading to enhanced cell stress responses which further exacerbate inflammation. ROS production can increase IL-6 production and lipid peroxidation resulting in cell damage. Therefore, early treatment with anti-oxidants such as NAC during COVID-19 can be a way to bypass the excessive inflammation and cell damage that lead to severe infection, thus early NAC as intervention should be evaluated in a clinical trial setting.
33814022 Author contributions Ethical standards References In this paper, we present a method to estimate the risk of reopening of schools illustrated with the case of the State of Sao Paulo, Brazil. The model showed that, although no death of children would result from the reopening of the schools in the three cities analysed, the risk of asymptomatic and symptomatic cases and secondary cases among teachers, school staff and relatives of the children is not negligible. Although the epidemic hit different regions with different intensities, our model shows that, for regions where the incidence profile is similar to the cities analysed, the risk of reopening of schools is still too high. This in spite of the fact that incidences in these cities were declining in the period of the time considered. Therefore, although we cannot extend the result to the entire country, the overall conclusion is valid for regions with a declining incidence and it is even more valid for regions where incidence is increasing. We assumed a very conservative level of infection transmissibility of children of just 10% as that of adults. In spite of the very low level of transmissibility is assumed, the number of secondary cases caused by infected children among teachers, school staff and relatives varied from 2 to 85. It is, therefore, too soon to have any degree of confidence that reopening of schools before the advent of a vaccine is the right decision to take. The purpose of our model and simulations is to provide a method to estimate the risk of school reopening, although we are sure it could be applied as a guide to public health strategies.
34567255 References The severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 pandemic coronavirus disease (COVID-19) and the measures taken to lessen its impact have had side effects affecting timely care of other diseases. The aim of this paper is to quantify the impact of the pandemic on the cancer care line in the province of Santa Fe, Argentina. It is an observational cross-sectional study comparing the impact on selected variables of the pre-pandemic and intra-pandemic periods. The formula of percentage variation was used to show the differences. The positivity index was calculated and expressed as a percentage. The proportions of both periods were compared through the chi-squared test and its p-value. Reductions were observed in all the variables under study. However, the deeper impact was evident in screening, with 56%-87% decreases in the number of procedures carried out. A 26% reduction was seen in diagnosis. Treatment was the variable with the least impact, with a 3% decrease. COVID-19 as well as the measures taken to reduce its impact caused alterations in the cancer care line in the province, with clear differences according to the variable under study. Measures related to cancer screening were displaced, prioritising the care of patients already diagnosed and treated. Considering the new increase in the number of COVID-19 cases, it is essential to adapt the healthcare system, and design new innovative strategies to reduce long-term consequences.
32360210 References 
35584232 Supporting Information Available Author Contributions References Sewage surveillance is increasingly employed as a supplementary tool for COVID-19 control. Experiences learnt from large-scale trials could guide better interpretation of the sewage data for public health interventions. Here, we compared the performance of seven commonly used primer-probe sets in RT-qPCR and evaluated the usefulness in the sewage surveillance program in Hong Kong. All selected primer-probe sets reliably detected SARS-CoV-2 in pure water at 7 copies per muL. Sewage matrix did not influence RT-qPCR determination of SARS-CoV-2 concentrated from a small-volume sewage (30 mL) but introduced inhibitory impacts on a large-volume sewage (920 mL) with a DeltaCt of 0.2-10.8. Diagnostic performance evaluation in finding COVID-19 cases showed that N1 was the best single primer-probe set, while the ORF1ab set is not recommended. Sewage surveillance using the N1 set for over 3200 samples effectively caught the outbreak trend and, importantly, had a 56% sensitivity and a 96% specificity in uncovering the signal sources from new cases and/or convalescent patients in the community. Our study paves the way for selecting detection primer-probe sets in wider applications in responding to the COVID-19 pandemic. Diagnostic evaluation of different primer-probe sets enhanced sewage surveillance to inform public health interventions for the control of COVID-19.
34822228 References 
33660320 REFERENCE 
32240633 References 
33631857 References The COVID-19 pandemic has demanded a rapid adaptation in healthcare provision, including patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). This viewpoint discusses some of the unique challenges in managing comorbid IBD and COVID-10 experienced by our team at The Royal Melbourne Hospital, which was at the epicentre of the COVID-19 'second-wave' surge in Melbourne.
32499903 List of acronyms References In the autumn of 2019, the organizers of the 2020 Padua Muscle Days planned an intense program, which was to be held from March 18 to March 21, 2020. The program included eight Scientific Sessions to occur over three full days at either Padova University or the Hotel Augustus on Euganei Hills (Padova), Italy. Abruptly, however, in early January the Coronavirus COVID-19 outbreak started in China and changed the world perspectives and expectations. In Italy, it started in Lombardy and Veneto, two main industrial areas of the country with intense connections and interchanges of people and commercial activities with China. Indeed, the virus was first isolated from a couple of Chinese tourists, who inadvertently incubated the infection during their visit to many towns in Italy. Within the following two weeks, the epidemic had the first Italian cases and victims in an area south of Milan and in a Village of the Euganei Hills (Vo Euganeo, Padova). The village was immediately quarantined, but it was too late. The virus had escaped the area. Thus, it was a mandatory, though difficult decision (made even before the Italian National Government posted rules to be followed to decrease spread of the infection), to post-pone the Padua Muscle Days meeting from 18-21 March, 2020 to 25-28 November, 2020. Luckily, the vast majority of organizers, chairs, speakers, and attendees accepted the decision and have assured their presence in late November, despite the coincidence with the Thanksgiving holiday in the US. Currently, the only changes in the program are the new dates; however, it is difficult to forecast the future. Anyhow, the rationale of the decision to post-pone 2020PMD was reinforced by the actions of many organizers of international events. One of the most recent examples is the March 6, 2020 decision of the leaders of the Experimental Biology Host Societies to cancel Experimental Biology (EB) 2020, set to take place April 4-7 in San Diego, California, USA. All these active civil responses to world dangers are mandatory to avoid those military responses that are easy to start, but provide the worst results. How do we not lose half of the 2020 year? The option is to try to achieve some of the goals of the meeting by long-distance communications. Thus, the Collection of Abstracts will be, as originally planned, e-published in this 30(1) 2020 Issue of the European Journal of Translational Myology (EJTM) together with the many EJTM Communications submitted by speakers and attendees of the 2020PMD. We may also start the process that will implement EMMA, the European Mobility Medicine Association, by circulating a proposal and inviting comments.
34673261 References We read with great interest the article "Underrepresentation of older adults in clinical trials on COVID-19 vaccines: A systematic review" written by Nicola Veronese et al. This important work demonstrated that medications and vaccines commonly used in older adults have not been adequately evaluated. Concerning this systematic review, we shall like to mention some certain points deserved to be attended by the authors.
34008930  Spain is one of the European countries most affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. Epidemiologic studies are warranted to improve the disease understanding, evaluate the care procedure and prepare for futures waves. The aim of the study was to describe epidemiologic characteristics associated with hospitalized patients with COVID-19. This real-world, observational, multicenter and retrospective study screened all consecutive patients admitted to 8 Spanish private hospitals. Inclusion criteria: hospitalized adults (age>=18 years old) with clinically and radiologically findings compatible with COVID-19 disease from March 1st to April 5th, 2020. Exclusion criteria: patients presenting negative PCR for SARS-CoV-2 during the first 7 days from hospital admission, transfer to a hospital not belonging to the HM consortium, lack of data and discharge against medical advice in emergency departments. One thousand and three hundred thirty-one COVID-19 patients (medium age 66.9 years old; males n= 841, medium length of hospital stayed 8 days, non-survivors n=233) were analyzed. One hundred and fifteen were admitted to intensive care unit (medium length of stay 16 days, invasive mechanical ventilation n= 95, septic shock n= 37 and renal replacement therapy n= 17). Age, male gender, leukocytes, platelets, oxygen saturation, chronic therapy with steroids and treatment with hydroxychloroquine/azithromycin were independent factors associated with mortality. The proportion of patients that survive and received tocilizumab and steroids were lesser and higher respectively than those that die, but their association was not significant. Overall crude mortality rate was 17.5%, rising up to 36.5% in the subgroup of patients that were admitted to the intensive care unit. Seven factors impact in hospital mortality. No immunomodulatory intervention were associated with in-hospital mortality.
32088847 Compliance with ethical standards Conflict of interest Research involving human participants and/or animals References The aim of this case series is to illustrate the 18F-FDG PET/CT findings of patients with acute respiratory disease caused by COVID-19 in Wuhan, Hubei province of China. We describe the 18F-FDG PET/CT results from four patients who were admitted to the hospital with respiratory symptoms and fever between January 13 and January 20, 2020, when the COVID-19 outbreak was still unrecognized and the virus infectivity was unknown. A retrospective review of the patients' medical history, clinical and laboratory data, as well as imaging findings strongly suggested a diagnosis of COVID-19. All patients had peripheral ground-glass opacities and/or lung consolidations in more than two pulmonary lobes. Lung lesions were characterized by a high 18F-FDG uptake and there was evidence of lymph node involvement. Conversely, disseminated disease was absent, a finding suggesting that COVID-19 has pulmonary tropism. Although 18F-FDG PET/CT cannot be routinely used in an emergency setting and is generally not recommended for infectious diseases, our pilot data shed light on the potential clinical utility of this imaging technique in the differential diagnosis of complex cases.
35313091  COVID-19 patients with rheumatic disease have a higher risk of mechanical ventilation than the general population. We assessed lung involvement using a validated deep learning algorithm that extracts a quantitative measure of radiographic lung disease severity. We performed a comparative cohort study of rheumatic disease patients with COVID-19 and >=1chest radiograph within +-2 weeks of COVID-19 diagnosis and matched comparators. We used unadjusted and adjusted (for age, Charlson Comorbidity Index, and interstitial lung disease) quantile regression to compare the maximum Pulmonary X-Ray Severity (PXS) score at the 10th-90th percentiles between groups. We evaluated the association of severe PXS score (>9) with mechanical ventilation and death using Cox regression. We identified 70 patients with rheumatic disease and 463 general population comparators. Maximum PXS scores were similar in the rheumatic disease patients and comparators at the 10th-60th percentiles but significantly higher among rheumatic disease patients at the 70th-90th percentiles (90th percentile score of 10.2 vs. 9.2, adjusted p=0.03). Rheumatic disease patients were more likely to have a PXS score >9 (20% vs. 11%, p=0.02), indicating severe pulmonary disease. Rheumatic disease patients with PXS scores >9 vs. <=9 had higher risk of mechanical ventilation (HR 24.1 [95% CI: 6.7, 86.9]) and death (HR 8.2 [95% CI: 0.7, 90.4]). Rheumatic disease patients with COVID-19 had more severe radiographic lung involvement than comparators. Higher PXS scores were associated with mechanical ventilation and will be important for future studies leveraging big data to assess COVID-19 outcomes in rheumatic disease patients. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
33941488 References The vaccination campaign against Sars-CoV-2 commenced in Italy at the end of December 2020. The first ones to receive the immunization against the virus were the health workers and the residents of nursing homes, following which the vaccine would be available for the entire population, beginning with the most vulnerable individuals. SARS-CoV2 vaccines have been demonstrated to be safe for the general population, although no data for patients with liver diseases or those having undergone liver transplantation are available so far. The present position statement AISF is an attempt to suggest, based on the published data on the impact of Sars-Cov-2 infection in patients with chronic liver disease, a possible priority for vaccination for this category of patients.
35122732 References 
33435378 Supplementary Materials Author Contributions Funding Institutional Review Board Statement Informed Consent Statement Data Availability Statement Conflicts of Interest References The world has faced a coronavirus outbreak, which, in addition to lung complications, has caused other serious problems, including cardiovascular. There is still no explanation for the mechanisms of coronavirus that trigger dysfunction of the cardiac autonomic nervous system (ANS). We believe that the complex mechanisms that change the status of ANS could only be solved by advanced multidimensional analysis of many variables, obtained both from the original cardiovascular signals and from laboratory analysis and detailed patient history. The aim of this paper is to analyze different measures of entropy as potential dimensions of the multidimensional space of cardiovascular data. The measures were applied to heart rate and systolic blood pressure signals collected from 116 patients with COVID-19 and 77 healthy controls. Methods that indicate a statistically significant difference between patients with different levels of infection and healthy controls will be used for further multivariate research. As a result, it was shown that a statistically significant difference between healthy controls and patients with COVID-19 was shown by sample entropy applied to integrated transformed probability signals, common symbolic dynamics entropy, and copula parameters. Statistical significance between serious and mild patients with COVID-19 can only be achieved by cross-entropies of heart rate signals and systolic pressure. This result contributes to the hypothesis that the severity of COVID-19 disease is associated with ANS disorder and encourages further research.
33167115 References Induced abortion has always been a challenging topic; however, it needs to be discussed during the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic.
35008505 Supplementary Materials Author Contributions Funding Institutional Review Board Statement Informed Consent Statement Conflicts of Interest References Using drugs to treat COVID-19 symptoms may induce adverse effects and modify patient outcomes. These adverse events may be further aggravated in obese patients, who often present different illnesses such as metabolic-associated fatty liver disease. In Rennes University Hospital, several drug such as hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) have been used in the clinical trial HARMONICOV to treat COVID-19 patients, including obese patients. The aim of this study is to determine whether HCQ metabolism and hepatotoxicity are worsened in obese patients using an in vivo/in vitro approach. Liquid chromatography high resolution mass spectrometry in combination with untargeted screening and molecular networking were employed to study drug metabolism in vivo (patient's plasma) and in vitro (HepaRG cells and RPTEC cells). In addition, HepaRG cells model were used to reproduce pathophysiological features of obese patient metabolism, i.e., in the condition of hepatic steatosis. The metabolic signature of HCQ was modified in HepaRG cells cultured under a steatosis condition and a new metabolite was detected (carboxychloroquine). The RPTEC model was found to produce only one metabolite. A higher cytotoxicity of HCQ was observed in HepaRG cells exposed to exogenous fatty acids, while neutral lipid accumulation (steatosis) was further enhanced in these cells. These in vitro data were compared with the biological parameters of 17 COVID-19 patients treated with HCQ included in the HARMONICOV cohort. Overall, our data suggest that steatosis may be a risk factor for altered drug metabolism and possibly toxicity of HCQ.
32234343 References As of March 10, 2020, Italy had reported 9172 COVID-19 cases with 463 deaths. We report the real-time reproductive numbers (R(t)) and case fatality rates for selected European countries (Italy, France, Germany, and Spain) by March 9, 2020. The R(t) was greater than 2 in the selected European countries, indicating that the outbreak will continue. As a global pandemic is inevitable, real-time monitoring of transmission is vital for containing the spread of COVID-19. The main objective of this study was to report the real-time effective reproduction numbers (R(t)) and case fatality rates (CFR) in Europe. Data for this study were obtained mainly from the World Health Organization website, up to March 9, 2020. R(t) were estimated by exponential growth rate (EG) and time-dependent (TD) methods. 'R0' package in R was employed to estimate R(t) by fitting the existing epidemic curve. Both the naive CFR (nCFR) and adjusted CFR (aCFR) were estimated. With the EG method, R(t) was 3.27 (95% confidence interval (CI) 3.17-3.38) for Italy, 6.32 (95% CI 5.72-6.99) for France, 6.07 (95% CI 5.51-6.69) for Germany, and 5.08 (95% CI 4.51-5.74) for Spain. With the TD method, the R value for March 9 was 3.10 (95% CI 2.21-4.11) for Italy, 6.56 (95% CI 2.04-12.26) for France, 4.43 (95% CI 1.83-7.92) for Germany, and 3.95 (95% CI 0-10.19) for Spain. This study provides important findings on the early outbreak of COVID-19 in Europe. Due to the recent rapid increase in new cases of COVID-19, real-time monitoring of the transmissibility and mortality in Spain and France is a priority.
32495819 REFERENCES 
33491147 Abbreviations Authors' contributions Funding Availability of data and materials Ethics approval and consent to participate Consent for publication Competing interests References Lung ultrasound can adequately monitor disease severity in pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome. We hypothesize lung ultrasound can adequately monitor COVID-19 pneumonia in critically ill patients. Adult patients with COVID-19 pneumonia admitted to the intensive care unit of two academic hospitals who underwent a 12-zone lung ultrasound and a chest CT examination were included. Baseline characteristics, and outcomes including composite endpoint death or ICU stay > 30 days were recorded. Lung ultrasound and CT images were quantified as a lung ultrasound score involvement index (LUSI) and CT severity involvement index (CTSI). Primary outcome was the correlation, agreement, and concordance between LUSI and CTSI. Secondary outcome was the association of LUSI and CTSI with the composite endpoints. We included 55 ultrasound examinations in 34 patients, which were 88% were male, with a mean age of 63 years and mean P/F ratio of 151. The correlation between LUSI and CTSI was strong (r = 0.795), with an overall 15% bias, and limits of agreement ranging - 40 to 9.7. Concordance between changes in sequentially measured LUSI and CTSI was 81%. In the univariate model, high involvement on LUSI and CTSI were associated with a composite endpoint. In the multivariate model, LUSI was the only remaining independent predictor. Lung ultrasound can be used as an alternative for chest CT in monitoring COVID-19 pneumonia in critically ill patients as it can quantify pulmonary involvement, register changes over the course of the disease, and predict death or ICU stay > 30 days. Trial registration: NTR, NL8584. Registered 01 May 2020:retrospectively registered, https://www.trialregister.nl/trial/8584
34427682 References This cohort study examines the safety and efficacy of fully remote, asynchronous medication abortion care during the COVID-19 pandemic.
34966387 References As severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) variants continue to emerge and spread around the world, antibodies and vaccines to confer broad and potent neutralizing activity are urgently needed. Through the isolation and characterization of monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) from individuals infected with SARS-CoV-2, we identified one antibody, P36-5D2, capable of neutralizing the major SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern. Crystal and electron cryo-microscopy (cryo-EM) structure analyses revealed that P36-5D2 targeted to a conserved epitope on the receptor-binding domain of the spike protein, withstanding the three key mutations:K417N, E484K, and N501Y:found in the variants that are responsible for escape from many potent neutralizing mAbs, including some already approved for emergency use authorization (EUA). A single intraperitoneal (IP) injection of P36-5D2 as a prophylactic treatment completely protected animals from challenge of infectious SARS-CoV-2 Alpha and Beta. Treated animals manifested normal body weight and were devoid of infection-associated death up to 14 days. A substantial decrease of the infectious virus in the lungs and brain, as well as reduced lung pathology, was found in these animals compared to the controls. Thus, P36-5D2 represents a new and desirable human antibody against the current and emerging SARS-CoV-2 variants.
35051130 References 
32346493 References 
34903197 Abbreviations Authors' contributions Funding Availability of data and materials Declarations Ethics approval and consent to participate Consent for publication Competing interests References The COVID-19 pandemic and associated public health measures have resulted in the closure of many physical activity-supporting facilities. This study examined Ontario parents' and children's perspectives of COVID-19's impact on children's physical activity behaviours, return to play/sport during COVID-19, as well as barriers/facilitators to getting active amid extended closures of physical activity venues. Parents/guardians of children aged 12 years and under living in Ontario, Canada were invited to participate in an interview. 12 parent/guardian and 9 child interviews were conducted via Zoom between December 2020 - January 2021, were audio-recorded, and transcribed verbatim. Thematic content analysis was undertaken to identify pronounced themes. Themes for both parent and child interviews fell into one of three categories: 1) barriers and facilitators for getting children active amid COVID-19 closures of physical activity-supporting facilities; 2) changes in children's activity levels; and, 3) perspectives on return to play/sport during and post-pandemic. Various subthemes were identified and varied between parents and children. The most common facilitator for dealing with children's inactivity voiced by parents/guardians was getting active outdoors. Parents/guardians noted their willingness to have their children return to play/sport in the community once deemed safe by public health guidelines, and children's willingness to return stemmed primarily from missing their friends and other important authority figures (e.g., coaches) and sporting events (e.g., tournaments). Findings from this study could inform families of feasible and realistic strategies for increasing children's physical activity during community closures, while also providing public health experts with information regarding what supports, or infrastructure might be needed during future lockdown periods and/or pandemics. The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12889-021-12344-w.
35151823 References In 2019, the world faced a serious health challenge, the rapid spreading of a life-threatening viral pneumonia, coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) caused by a betacoronavirus severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). As of January 2022 WHO statistics shows more than 5.6 million death and about 350 million infection by SARS-CoV-2. One of the life threatening aspects of COVID-19 is secondary infections and reduced efficacy of antibiotics against them. Since the beginning of COVID-19 many researches have been done on identification, treatment, and vaccine development. Bacterial viruses (bacteriophages) could offer novel approaches to detect, treat and control COVID-19. Phage therapy and in particular using phage cocktails can be used to control or eliminate the bacterial pathogen as an alternative or complementary therapeutic agent. At the same time, phage interaction with the host immune system can regulate the inflammatory response. In addition, phage display and engineered synthetic phages can be utilized to develop new vaccines and antibodies, stimulate the immune system, and elicit a rapid and well-appropriate defense response. The emergence of SARS-CoV-2 new variants like delta and omicron has proved the urgent need for precise, efficient and novel approaches for vaccine development and virus detection techniques in which bacteriophages may be one of the plausible solutions. Therefore, phages with similar morphology and/or genetic content to that of coronaviruses can be used for ecological and epidemiological modeling of SARS-CoV-2 behavior and future generations of coronavirus, and in general new viral pathogens. This article is a comprehensive review/perspective of potential applications of bacteriophages in the fight against the present pandemic and the post-COVID era.
34803818 References Research shows that trained mentors achieve better results than untrained ones. Their training should particularly address their expectations for their future mentoring. Our study involved 190 preservice teachers, potential mentors of ongoing school mentoring for primary and secondary school students of all grades. They were randomly assigned to one of four conditions in a 2-x-2 between-subjects design of mentoring type (traditional mentoring versus e-mentoring) and mentoring context (non-pandemic versus COVID-19 pandemic). Participants assessed mentoring conducted under these four conditions in terms of its appropriateness for achieving four mentoring program targets: learning, key skills, social targets, and problem coping. Participants were also asked to assess the resources available to achieve each program target. Overall, the potential mentors considered the various conditions to be suitable for achieving the four program targets. They were particularly favorable in their assessment of the possibility for the realization of learning targets. Likewise, they assumed that sufficient resources were available to achieve the targets. However, a repeated-measures MANOVA showed that the potential mentors considered more ambitious targets to be possible in traditional mentoring than in e-mentoring and normal (i.e., pre-pandemic) contextual conditions than during the COVID-19 pandemic. In contrast, they estimated the resources available to achieve the targets to be about the same in the four conditions. This indicates a decoupling of mentoring targets from the consideration of the resources needed to achieve them. This assumption was confirmed in correlation analyses and has implications for mentor training.
32337584  Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is a life-threatening respiratory condition caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) and was initially detected in China in December 2019. Currently, in Germany over 140,000 cases of COVID-19 are confirmed. Here we report a nosocomial outbreak of SARS-CoV-2 infections in the pediatric dialysis unit of the University Hospital of Munster (UHM). Single-step real-time RT-PCR from nasopharyngeal swaps was used to diagnose the index patient and identify infected contacts. Epidemiological links were analyzed by patient interviews and chart reviews. In addition, each contact was assessed for exposure to the index case and monitored for clinical symptoms. Threshold cycle (Ct) values of all positive test results were compared between symptomatic and asymptomatic cases. Forty-eight cases were involved in this nosocomial outbreak. Nine contact cases developed laboratory confirmed COVID-19 infections. Two SARS-CoV-2 positive cases remained clinically asymptomatic. Eleven cases reported flu-like symptoms without positive results. Ct values were significantly lower in cases presenting typical COVID-19 symptoms, suggesting high viral shedding (p =0.007). Person-to-person transmission was at the heart of a hospital outbreak of SARS-CoV-2 between healthcare workers (HCWs) and patients in the pediatric dialysis unit at the UHM. Semi quantitative real-time RT-PCR results suggest that individuals with high viral load pose a risk to spread SARS-CoV-2 in the hospital setting. Our epidemiological observation highlights the need to develop strategies to trace and monitor SARS-CoV-2 infected HCWs in order to prevent COVID-19 outbreaks in the hospital setting.
32624392 References Tracheostomy in COVID-19-related severe acute respiratory syndrome is at high risk of viral dissemination. The percutaneous dilatation technique could reduce this risk, being performed at the bedside and minimising airway opening. In the COVID-19 context, however, with precarious respiratory status, it requires specific preparation. We designed a 3-hour training module, and here provide a step-by-step schedule, including video analysis, a demonstration of the kit, the recommended precautions related to COVID-19, and several simulation scenarios of increasing difficulty, using a high-tech mannequin. A low-tech procedural simulator was also developed for practicing the steps of the procedure. Our experience (3 sessions with 14 participants) highlighted the difficult points of the procedure in the COVID-19 context, and defined a checklist for clinical practice and an assessment grid. This type of simulation helps to prepare teams for a potentially delicate technical act.
33706836 References 
34697001 References Non-pharmaceutical interventions that have been implemented in southern hemisphere countries because of COVID-19 pandemic declaration in March 2020, have evidenced some unexpected changes in the way of spreading of many other viruses. This study as a part of ECEALHBA's Project, reports the consequences of COVID-19 pandemic over 2020-2021 bronchiolitis epidemic period in the Central and Eastern regions of Spain. Multicenter, observational, descriptive and ambispective study of admitted infants with the diagnosis of bronchiolitis in 16 Spanish hospitals involved in the investigation project. Five epidemic periods previous to COVID-19 pandemic, from 2015 to 2020, were compared with the current one, 2020-2021, in both a qualitative and quantitative manner. Total of 4643 infants were admitted to the participating hospitals along the study period. Pandemic season hospital admissions for bronchiolitis were 94.1% lower than in pre-pandemic period. December and January were peak months for bronchiolitis admissions during pre-pandemic period, but September was the peak month during pandemic year. There was a progressive decrease of admissions from this moment until the end of the follow-up, in April 2021. Rhinovirus has been the commonest etiology for bronchiolitis in 2020-2021 epidemic period of bronchiolitis. Some of the non-pharmaceutical interventions initiated because of COVID-19 pandemic are probably related to the dramatic decrease of bronchiolitis cases in 2020-2021 season. It would be rewarding to purpose novel research to clarify how these simple interventions can be useful, close to vaccines and antiviral drugs, to achieve the goal of avoiding the spread of respiratory viruses in pediatric population.
32354772 References 
35195025 References We previously demonstrated low levels of digital literacy amongst pulmonary rehabilitation service-users prior to the COVID-19 pandemic. We aimed to identify whether the pandemic accelerated digital literacy in this population, resulting in greater acceptance of remote web-based pulmonary rehabilitation programme models. We surveyed digital access and behaviours and pulmonary rehabilitation delivery preferences of service-users referred to pulmonary rehabilitation in 2021 (cohort 2021) and propensity score-matched them to a cohort who completed the survey in 2020 (cohort 2020). There were indicators that digital access and confidence were better amongst the Cohort 2021 but no difference was seen in the proportion of patients choosing remote web-based pulmonary rehabilitation as an acceptable method of receiving pulmonary rehabilitation. In an unselected cohort of service-users, remote web-based pulmonary rehabilitation was considered acceptable in only a minority of patients which has implications on healthcare commissioning and delivery of pulmonary rehabilitation.
32985745  The aim of this study was to evaluate the skin problems and dermatological life quality of the health care workers (HCWs) due to personal protection equipment (PPE) use, who are at high risk for Covid-19 infection. A questionnaire about HCWs' PPE use, their skin symptoms, and prevention, management methods and Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI) was fulfilled. The median age of 440 participants was 33.5 (21.0-65.0) years old. Skin problems were found to be 90.2%, the most common were dryness, itching, cracking, burning, flaking, peeling and lichenification. The presence of skin problems (P < 0.001) was higher in those who did not use moisturizers. Of all, 22.3% (n = 98) stated that the use of PPE increased the severity of their previously diagnosed skin diseases and allergies (P < 0.01). Only 28.0% (n = 123) stated that they know the skin symptoms that may develop by using PPE. The proper hand washing rate was higher as education level increased (P < 0.001). Skin problems were higher in those using mask with metal nose bridge (p:0.02; p:0.003, respectively). As the mask using period prolonged, acne was more common (p:0.02). DLQI was significantly affected in women (P = 0.003), and with increased skin problems related to PPE (P < 0.001).It is important to organize trainings on prevention and management of possible skin symptoms due to PPE use according to guidelines. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
34326985 REFERENCES 
35175442 Declarations Competing interest Ethical approval References The aim of this study is to evaluate the differences in clinical presentations and the impact of healthcare organization on outcomes of neurological COVID-19 patients admitted during the first and second pandemic waves. In this single-center cohort study, we included all patients with SARS-CoV-2 infection admitted to a Neuro-COVID Unit. Demographic, clinical, and laboratory data were compared between patients admitted during the first and second waves of the COVID-19 pandemic. Two hundred twenty-three patients were included, of whom 112 and 111 were hospitalized during the first and second pandemic waves, respectively. Patients admitted during the second wave were younger and exhibited pulmonary COVID-19 severity, resulting in less oxygen support (n = 41, 36.9% vs n = 79, 70.5%, p < 0.001) and lower mortality rates (14.4% vs 31.3%, p = 0.004). The different healthcare strategies and early steroid treatment emerged as significant predictors of mortality independently from age, pre-morbid conditions and COVID-19 severity in Cox regression analyses. Differences in healthcare strategies during the second phase of the COVID-19 pandemic probably explain the differences in clinical outcomes independently of disease severity, underlying the importance of standardized early management of neurological patients with SARS-CoV-2 infection. The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s10072-022-05946-8.
32007643 References The novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) pneumonia has caused 2033 confirmed cases, including 56 deaths in mainland China, by 2020-01-26 17:06. We aim to estimate the basic reproduction number of 2019-nCoV in Wuhan, China using the exponential growth model method. We estimated that the mean R 0 ranges from 2.24 to 3.58 with an 8-fold to 2-fold increase in the reporting rate. Changes in reporting likely occurred and should be taken into account in the estimation of R 0. An ongoing outbreak of a novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) pneumonia hit a major city in China, Wuhan, December 2019 and subsequently reached other provinces/regions of China and other countries. We present estimates of the basic reproduction number, R0, of 2019-nCoV in the early phase of the outbreak. Accounting for the impact of the variations in disease reporting rate, we modelled the epidemic curve of 2019-nCoV cases time series, in mainland China from January 10 to January 24, 2020, through the exponential growth. With the estimated intrinsic growth rate (gamma), we estimated R0 by using the serial intervals (SI) of two other well-known coronavirus diseases, MERS and SARS, as approximations for the true unknown SI. The early outbreak data largely follows the exponential growth. We estimated that the mean R0 ranges from 2.24 (95%CI: 1.96-2.55) to 3.58 (95%CI: 2.89-4.39) associated with 8-fold to 2-fold increase in the reporting rate. We demonstrated that changes in reporting rate substantially affect estimates of R0. The mean estimate of R0 for the 2019-nCoV ranges from 2.24 to 3.58, and is significantly larger than 1. Our findings indicate the potential of 2019-nCoV to cause outbreaks.
35597776 Author contributions Funding Data availability Competing interests References Assessment of the intensity, dynamics and determinants of the antibody response after SARS-CoV-2 infection or vaccination in the general population is critical to guide vaccination policies. This study characterized the anti-spike IgG titers in 13,971 participants included in a French multicohort population-based serological survey on COVID-19 between April and October 2020 and followed-up with serological testing between May and October 2021. Eight follow-up profiles were defined depending on SARS-CoV-2 infection (0, 1 or 2) and COVID-19 vaccination (0, 1, 2 or 3). The anti-spike titer was lower in adults with no vaccination even in case of infection or reinfection, while it was higher in adults with infection followed by vaccination. The anti-spike titer was negatively correlated with age in vaccinated but uninfected adults, whereas it was positively correlated with age in unvaccinated but infected adults. In adults with 2 vaccine injections and no infection, the vaccine protocol, age, gender, and time since the last vaccine injection were independently associated with the anti-spike titer. The decrease in anti-spike titer was much more rapid in vaccinated than in infected subjects. These results highlight the strong heterogeneity of the antibody response against SARS-CoV-2 in the general population depending on previous infection and vaccination.
33452734 REFERENCES Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). In China, Yinqiao powder is widely used to prevent and treat COVID-19 patients with Weifen syndrome. In this study, the screening and verification of active ingredients, target selection and DisGeNET scoring, drug-ingredient-gene network construction, protein-protein interaction network construction, molecular docking and surface plasmon resonance (SPR) analysis, gene ontology (GO) functional analysis, gene tissue analysis, and kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis were used to explore the active ingredients, targets, and potential mechanisms of Yinqiao powder in the treatment of COVID-19. We also predicted the therapeutic effect of Yinqiao powder using TCM anti-COVID-19 (TCMATCOV). Yinqiao powder has a certain therapeutic effect on COVID-19, with an intervention score of 20.16. Hesperetin, eriodictyol, luteolin, quercetin, and naringenin were the potentially effective active ingredients against COVID-19. The hub-proteins were interleukin-6 (IL-6), mitogen-activated protein kinase 3 (MAPK3), tumor necrosis factor (TNF), and tumor protein P53 (TP53). The potential mechanisms of Yinqiao powder in the treatment of COVID-19 are the TNF signaling pathway, T-cell receptor signaling pathway, Toll-like receptor signaling pathway, and MAPK signaling pathway. This study provides a new perspective for discovering potential drugs and mechanisms of COVID-19.
35340778 References 
32458459 REFERENCES This retrospective study was designed to explore whether neutrophil to lymphocyte ratio (NLR) is a prognostic factor in patients with coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). A cohort of patients with COVID-19 admitted to the Tongren Hospital of Wuhan University from 11 January 2020 to 3 March 2020 was retrospectively analyzed. Patients with hematologic malignancy were excluded. The NLR was calculated by dividing the neutrophil count by the lymphocyte count. NLR values were measured at the time of admission. The primary outcome was all-cause in-hospital mortality. A multivariate logistic analysis was performed. A total of 1004 patients with COVID-19 were included in this study. The mortality rate was 4.0% (40 cases). The median age of nonsurvivors (68 years) was significantly older than survivors (62 years). Male sex was more predominant in nonsurvival group (27; 67.5%) than in the survival group (466; 48.3%). NLR value of nonsurvival group (median: 49.06; interquartile range [IQR]: 25.71-69.70) was higher than that of survival group (median: 4.11; IQR: 2.44-8.12; P < .001). In multivariate logistic regression analysis, after adjusting for confounding factors, NLR more than 11.75 was significantly correlated with all-cause in-hospital mortality (odds ratio = 44.351; 95% confidence interval = 4.627-425.088). These results suggest that the NLR at hospital admission is associated with in-hospital mortality among patients with COVID-19. Therefore, the NLR appears to be a significant prognostic biomarker of outcomes in critically ill patients with COVID-19. However, further investigation is needed to validate this relationship with data collected prospectively. NLR is a significant prognostic biomarker of outcomes in critically ill patients with COVID-19. COVID-19 is more likely to infected those elder men with chronic comorbidities. NLR may also help in the early identification of older patients at higher risk of COVID-19. Close monitoring and timely intervention are needed for elderly patients with COVID-19.
35169259 Competing interests References The perspectives of people with lived experience of any condition being researched must actively inform the research questions asked and the way in which we go about answering them. The experience of Long Covid gives a contemporary example of how working together with patients is integral to medical research. In this Comment article, Nisreen Alwan discusses what her experience as both a public health academic and a person living with Long COVID has taught her about the importance of including those with lived experience of a condition in setting the research agenda.
33114356 Author Contributions Funding Conflicts of Interest References Intercellular communication occurring by cell-to-cell contacts and via secreted messengers trafficked through extracellular vehicles is critical for regulating biological functions of multicellular organisms. Recent research has revealed that non-coding RNAs can be found in extracellular vesicles consistent with a functional importance of these molecular vehicles in virus propagation and suggesting that these essential membrane-bound bodies can be highjacked by viruses to promote disease pathogenesis. Newly emerging evidence that coronaviruses generate non-coding RNAs and use extracellular vesicles to facilitate viral pathogenicity may have important implications for the development of effective strategies to combat COVID-19, a disease caused by infection with the novel coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2. This article provides a short overview of our current understanding of the interactions between non-coding RNAs and extracellular vesicles and highlights recent research which supports these interactions as potential therapeutic targets in the development of novel antiviral therapies.
34188432 References The continuous mutation of SARS-CoV-2 opens the possibility of the appearance of new variants of the virus with important differences in its spreading characteristics, mortality rates, etc. On 14 December 2020, the United Kingdom reported a potentially more contagious coronavirus variant, present in that country, which is referred to as VOC 202012/01. On 18 December 2020, the South African government also announced the emergence of a new variant in a scenario similar to that of the UK, which is referred to as variant 501.V2. Another important milestone regarding this pandemic was the beginning, in December 2020, of vaccination campaigns in several countries. There are several vaccines, with different characteristics, developed by various laboratories and research centers. A natural question arises: what could be the impact of these variants and vaccines on the spread of COVID-19? Many models have been proposed to simulate the spread of COVID-19 but, to the best of our knowledge, none of them incorporates the effects of potential SARS-CoV-2 variants together with the vaccines in the spread of COVID-19. We develop here a -SVEIHQRD mathematical model able to simulate the possible impact of this type of variants and of the vaccines, together with the main mechanisms influencing the disease spread. The model may be of interest for policy makers, as a tool to evaluate different possible future scenarios. We apply the model to the particular case of Italy (as an example of study case), showing different outcomes. We observe that the vaccines may reduce the infections, but they might not be enough for avoiding a new wave, with the current expected vaccination rates in that country, if the control measures are relaxed. Furthermore, a more contagious variant could increase significantly the cases, becoming the most common way of infection. We show how, even with the pandemic cases slowing down (with an effective reproduction number less than 1) and the disease seeming to be under control, the effective reproduction number of just the new variant may be greater than 1 and, eventually, the number of infections would increase towards a new disease wave. Therefore, a rigorous follow-up of the evolution of the number of infections with any potentially more dangerous new variant is of paramount importance at any stage of the pandemic.
33409040 Human Ethics Animal Ethics References Pearson and Spearman correlations are important tools for all scientific fields and are widely used in medical sciences, especially during the current COVID-19 pandemic emergency. This technical report has shown that conventional criteria for evaluating the adoption of these coefficients can conceal substantial scientific information regarding correlations that occur above or below a certain threshold. In particular, the Pearson coefficient can reveal hidden correlations even when data are not normally distributed. Finally, an optimized operational guide to reveal any hidden correlation is reported.
33908897  Effective SARS-CoV-2 vaccines are urgently needed. Although most vaccine strategies have focused on systemic immunization, here we compared the protective efficacy of 2 adjuvanted subunit vaccines with spike protein S1: an intramuscularly primed/boosted vaccine and an intramuscularly primed/intranasally boosted mucosal vaccine in rhesus macaques. The intramuscular-alum-only vaccine induced robust binding and neutralizing antibody and persistent cellular immunity systemically and mucosally, whereas intranasal boosting with nanoparticles, including IL-15 and TLR agonists, elicited weaker T cell and Ab responses but higher dimeric IgA and IFN-alpha. Nevertheless, following SARS-CoV-2 challenge, neither group showed detectable subgenomic RNA in upper or lower respiratory tracts versus naive controls, indicating full protection against viral replication. Although mucosal and systemic protective mechanisms may differ, results demonstrate both vaccines can protect against respiratory SARS-CoV-2 exposure. In summary, we have demonstrated that the mucosal vaccine was safe after multiple doses and cleared the input virus more efficiently in the nasal cavity and thus may act as a potent complementary reinforcing boost for conventional systemic vaccines to provide overall better protection.
33501506 Funding Data availability Code availability Declarations Ethics approval and consent to participate Consent for publication Conflict of interest References In the context of the worldwide outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), some patients report functional complaints after apparent recovery from COVID-19. This clinical presentation has been referred as "long COVID." We here present a retrospective analysis of 18F-FDG brain PET of long COVID patients from the same center with a biologically confirmed diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2 infection and persistent functional complaints at least 3 weeks after the initial infection. PET scans of 35 patients with long COVID were compared using whole-brain voxel-based analysis to a local database of 44 healthy subjects controlled for age and sex to characterize cerebral hypometabolism. The individual relevance of this metabolic profile was evaluated to classify patients and healthy subjects. Finally, the PET abnormalities were exploratory compared with the patients' characteristics and functional complaints. In comparison to healthy subjects, patients with long COVID exhibited bilateral hypometabolism in the bilateral rectal/orbital gyrus, including the olfactory gyrus; the right temporal lobe, including the amygdala and the hippocampus, extending to the right thalamus; the bilateral pons/medulla brainstem; the bilateral cerebellum (p-voxel < 0.001 uncorrected, p-cluster < 0.05 FWE-corrected). These metabolic clusters were highly discriminant to distinguish patients and healthy subjects (100% correct classification). These clusters of hypometabolism were significantly associated with more numerous functional complaints (brainstem and cerebellar clusters), and all associated with the occurrence of certain symptoms (hyposmia/anosmia, memory/cognitive impairment, pain and insomnia) (p < 0.05). In a more preliminary analysis, the metabolism of the frontal cluster which included the olfactory gyrus was worse in the 7 patients treated by ACE drugs for high blood pressure (p = 0.032), and better in the 3 patients that had used nasal decongestant spray at the infectious stage (p < 0.001). This study demonstrates a profile of brain PET hypometabolism in long COVID patients with biologically confirmed SARS-CoV-2 and persistent functional complaints more than 3 weeks after the initial infection symptoms, involving the olfactory gyrus and connected limbic/paralimbic regions, extended to the brainstem and the cerebellum. These hypometabolisms are associated with patients' symptoms, with a biomarker value to identify and potentially follow these patients. The hypometabolism of the frontal cluster, which included the olfactory gyrus, seems to be linked to ACE drugs in patients with high blood pressure, with also a better metabolism of this olfactory region in patients using nasal decongestant spray, suggesting a possible role of ACE receptors as an olfactory gateway for this neurotropism.
34904088  Clostridium difficile infection (CDI) has increased in prevalence during the last years. The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic has negatively influenced patient outcomes. The majority of the severe acute respiratory syndrome-coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2)-infected patients received antibiotics during hospitalization. To analyze the factors that influenced CDI development after SARS-CoV-2 infection. Between March 2020 to December 2020, we performed a prospective observational study including 447 patients diagnosed with CDI who were admitted to our tertiary referral university hospital. The diagnosis of CDI was based on the presence of diarrhea (>= 3 watery stools within 24 h) associated with Clostridium difficile toxins A or B. We excluded patients with other etiology of acute diarrhea. Among the total 447 (12.5%) patients with CDI, most were male (54.3%) and mean age was 59.7 +- 10.8 years. Seventy-six (17.0%) had history of COVID-19, most being elderly (COVID-19: 62.6 +- 14.6 years vs non-COVID-19: 56.8 +- 17.6 years, P = 0.007), with history of alcohol consumption (43.4% vs 29.4%, P = 0.017), previous hospitalizations (81.6% vs 54.9%, P < 0.001) and antibiotic treatments (60.5% vs 35.5%, P < 0.001), requiring higher doses of vancomycin and prone to recurrent disease (25.0% vs 13.1%, P = 0.011). Age over 60 years [odds ratio (OR): 2.591, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.452-4.624, P = 0.001], urban residence (OR: 2.330, 95%CI: 1.286-4.221, P = 0.005), previous antibiotic treatments (OR: 1.909, 95%CI: 1.083-3.365, P = 0.025), previous hospitalizations (OR: 2.509, 95%CI: 1.263-4.986, P = 0.009) and alcohol consumption (OR: 2.550, 95%CI: 1.459-4.459, P = 0.001) were risk factors of CDI in COVID-19. CDI risk is unrelated to history of SARS-CoV-2 infection. However, previous COVID-19 may necessitate higher doses of vancomycin for CDI.
34736354 References Inactivated coronaviruses, including severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 1 (SARS-CoV-1) and Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV), as potential vaccines have been reported to result in enhanced respiratory diseases (ERDs) in murine and nonhuman primate (NHP) pneumonia models after virus challenge, which poses great safety concerns of antibody-dependent enhancement (ADE) for the rapid wide application of inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccines in humans, especially when the neutralizing antibody levels induced by vaccination or initial infection quickly wane to nonneutralizing or subneutralizing levels over the time. With passive transfer of diluted postvaccination polyclonal antibodies to mimic the waning antibody responses after vaccination, we found that in the absence of cellular immunity, passive infusion of subneutralizing or nonneutralizing anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibodies could still provide some level of protection against infection upon challenge, and no low-level antibody-enhanced infection was observed. The anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG-infused group and control group showed similar, mild to moderate pulmonary immunopathology during the acute phase of virus infection, and no evidence of vaccine-related pulmonary immunopathology enhancement was found. Typical immunopathology included elevated MCP-1, IL-8 and IL-33 in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid; alveolar epithelial hyperplasia; and exfoliated cells and mucus in bronchioles. Our results corresponded with the recent observations that no pulmonary immunology was detected in preclinical studies of inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccines in either murine or NHP pneumonia models or in large clinical trials and further supported the safety of inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccines.
34641391 Author Contributions Funding Institutional Review Board Statement Informed Consent Statement Data Availability Statement Conflicts of Interest Appendix A Appendix B References The large number of emerging antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) for cancer therapy has resulted in a significant market 'boom', garnering worldwide attention. Despite ADCs presenting huge challenges to researchers, particularly regarding the identification of a suitable combination of antibody, linker, and payload, as of September 2021, 11 ADCs have been granted FDA approval, with eight of these approved since 2017 alone. Optimism for this therapeutic approach is clear, despite the COVID-19 pandemic, 2020 was a landmark year for deals and partnerships in the ADC arena, suggesting that there remains significant interest from Big Pharma. Herein we review the enthusiasm for ADCs by focusing on the features of those approved by the FDA, and offer some thoughts as to where the field is headed.
32239515 REFERENCES 
32753072 References 
35503234 References Objective: During COVID-19 pandemic, healthcare providers (HCPs) have been inundated with consultations related to over the counter (OTC) dietary supplements' protective role. Thus, the present study focused on assessing HCPs perceptions toward OTC products integration during the COVID-19 outbreak. Methods: Pertinent data was collected using validated-online survey comprising four sections: demographics, OTC supplementation perceptions, awareness related to safety of OTC supplements, confidence in recommending dosage and counseling to patients regarding OTC supplements' safety, and some health-related behaviors. Quantified perception score represented by corrected confidence-concern ratio was used in assessing perceptions, and associations between demographics with perception and awareness were explored. Results: A total of 600 responses were included in the final analysis. Vitamin C, zinc, and vitamin D were the most popularly recommended OTC supplements. Most respondents indicated positive perceptions toward dietary supplementation while around 60% of respondents reported reluctance about the protective role of COVID-19 vaccination. Bachelor's degree holders (AOR = 4.39, 95% CI = 2.25-10.33), pharmacists (AOR = 2.17, 95% CI = 1.5-9.5), and junior HCPs (<1 year experience) had improved perceptions compared to college graduates, physicians, and senior practitioners (AOR = .17, 95% CI = .04-.78 and AOR = .15, 95% CI = .02-.93), respectively. Conclusion: Suboptimal knowledge among HCPs toward the safety and hazards associated with integration of different OTC supplements during the COVID-19 pandemic dictates further education to ensure the safe integration of OTC supplements.
32381441 References In an effort to help combat the COVID-19 pandemic and preserve essential health care resources, starting in mid-March 2020, surgeons have been instructed to only perform essential surgical procedures. The vast majority of hip and knee arthroplasty surgery does not meet the definition of essential surgery. This study estimated the number of arthroplasty procedures that would be canceled because of these important restrictions. The US hip and knee arthroplasty procedure volume projections for 2020 were estimated from four recently published studies. Data from the American Joint Replacement Registry were utilized to determine what percentage of these cases would be considered nonessential surgery. Monthly and weekly estimates of nonessential hip and knee arthroplasty procedures that would have occurred had there not been any restrictions due to COVID-19 were calculated. After excluding essential procedures, it was estimated that approximately 30,000 primary and 3000 revision hip and knee arthroplasty procedures will be canceled each week while COVID-19 restrictions regarding nonessential surgery are in place. If only 50% of nonessential cases were actually canceled across the United States, that would still result in the cancellation of 15,001 primary and 1435 revision hip and knee arthroplasty procedures per week while restrictions are in place. This study highlights the profound impact COVID-19 is having on our current hip and knee arthroplasty volume. The large number of cases canceled because of COVID-19 translates into major financial losses for health care institutions and may have a profound impact on our patients.
32710774  In an effort to expedite the publication of articles related to the COVID-19 pandemic, AJHP is posting these manuscripts online as soon as possible after acceptance. Accepted manuscripts have been peer-reviewed and copyedited, but are posted online before technical formatting and author proofing. These manuscripts are not the final version of record and will be replaced with the final article (formatted per AJHP style and proofed by the authors) at a later time. The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic has created unprecedented challenges for health systems around the world. We describe our approach to adapting the pharmacy leadership structure to address critical medication shortages through innovative data analysis, procurement strategies, and rapid implementation of medication policy. Yale New Haven Health deployed a system incident management command structure to effectively respond to the COVID-19 crisis. System pharmacy services adopted a similar framework to enable efficient communication and quick decision-making in key domains, including drug procurement and policy. By refining a model to project health-system medication needs, we were able to anticipate challenges and devise alternative treatment algorithms. By leveraging big data and creating a system knowledge base, we were able to consolidate reporting and coordinate efforts to ensure system success. Various procurement strategies were employed to ensure adequate supply, including frequent communication with our wholesaler, sourcing direct from suppliers, outsourcing of sterile products compounding to registered 503B outsourcing facilities, and acquisition of active pharmaceutical ingredients for compounding of essential medications. Strategic positioning of pharmacists within the health system's incident command response teams and rapid adaption of drug use policy governance fueled accelerated response and nimble implementation. Communication was streamlined and executed via multiple outlets to reach a broad audience across the health system. With medication shortages posing a threat to patient care, dynamic pharmacy leadership proved essential to providing patient care at the height of the COVID-19 pandemic. System alignment and the rapid adaption of the existing framework for drug shortage management and medication use policy were crucial to success in crisis response.
35048011 References The aim of this study was to describe the changes in oral health policies and guidelines in response to the Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic in different countries and regions around the world. Information on oral health policies and guidelines from 9 countries (Canada, China including Hong Kong, Egypt, India, Japan, New Zealand, Nigeria, Switzerland, and Thailand) were summarized, and sources of the information were mostly the national or regional health authorities and/or dental council/associations. The changes made to the oral health guidelines depended on the severity of the COVID-19 pandemic. This included suspension of non-emergency dental care services at the peak of the COVID-19 outbreak, and easing the restrictions on non-essential and elective dental care when the pandemic became under control. The COVID-19 risk mitigation strategies include strict adherence to infection control practices (use of hand sanitizers, facemask and maintaining social distancing), reducing the amount of aerosol production in the dental setting, and managing the quality of air in the dental treatment rooms by reducing the use of air conditioners and improving air exchange. The COVID-19 pandemic has shown a major impact on dental practice. Dental professionals are trying to adapt to the new norms, while the medium to long-term impact of COVID-19 on dentistry needs further investigation.
33558097 References 
33675696 References 
34757734 Supporting Information Available Author Contributions Notes References Due to the current global SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, rapid and accurate diagnostic tools are needed to prevent the spread of COVID-19 across the globe. An electrochemical sensing platform was constructed using CNTs/WO3-screen printed electrodes for imprinting the complete virus particles (SARS-CoV-2 particles) within the polymeric matrix to create viral complementary binding sites. The sensor provided high selectivity toward the target virus over other tested human corona and influenza respiratory interference viruses. The sensitivity performance of the sensor chips was evaluated using different viral concentrations, while the limits of detection and quantification were 57 and 175 pg/mL, respectively. Reaching this satisfied low detection limit (almost 27-fold more sensitive than the RT-PCR), the sensor was applied in clinical specimens obtained from SARS-CoV-2 suspected cases. Thus, dealing directly with clinical samples on the chip could be provided as a portable device for instantaneous and simple point of care in hospitals, airports, and hotspots.
35492426 Compliance with ethical standards Conflict of interest References Using monthly panel dataset of prefectures in Japan, this study explored the effects of stay-at-home policies on the flows into and out of marriage. It was found that these policies significantly reduced both outcomes. According to our estimates, a nationwide state of emergency reduced the number of marriages per 1000 population by 10.4%, while that of divorces was reduced by 27.0%. Moreover, the prefectures designated as the special-precautions area suffered additional reductions with 6.1% and 8.9% for those of marriage and divorce, respectively.
32304928 References Homeless experts and some federal housing officials are sounding the alarm that the patchwork of government efforts to address the coronavirus outbreak risks leaving out one group of acutely vulnerable people: the homeless. In terms of isolation, it is too unclear what that looks like if you normally sleep on the streets. In this tough moment, when people should be turned away, not only it feels inhumane, but it is also a big public health risk, because where are they going to go? With more cities suspecting community transmission of the novel coronavirus, people who sleep in shelters or hunker down outside already have a lower life expectancy and often have underlying health conditions that put them at greater risk if they develop COVID-19. A large population of homeless people experience their pain and psychological distress intermittently. For low-income patients, the various borderline situations related to health/illness involve growing expectations regarding the basic needs. This is a serious concern when linked to the pandemic. Homeless experts and some federal housing officials are sounding the alarm that the patchwork of government efforts to address the coronavirus outbreak risks leaving out one group of acutely vulnerable people: the homeless. In terms of isolation, it is too unclear what that looks like if you normally sleep on the streets. In this tough moment, when people should be turned away, not only it feels inhumane, but it is also a big public health risk, because where are they going to go? The studies were identified using large-sized newspapers with international circulation With more cities suspecting community transmission of the novel coronavirus, people who sleep in shelters or hunker down outside already have a lower life expectancy and often have underlying health conditions that put them at greater risk if they develop COVID-19 (Global News, 2020). These people face lack of sleep, malnutrition, and "extreme stress levels just to meet their daily needs", all of which weakens the immune system. Along with mental illness or substance abuse disorders, they are "incredibly vulnerable to this virus". Health organizations are well aware of the risks involved in mental health. A large population of homeless people experience their pain and psychological distress intermittently. For low-income patients, the various borderline situations related to health/illness involve growing expectations regarding the basic needs. This is a serious concern when linked to the pandemic.
34667785  Given coronavirus disease (COVID-19's) unknown nature, diagnosis, and treatment is very complex up to the present time. Thus, it is essential to have a framework for an early prediction of the disease. In this regard, machines learning (ML) could be crucial to extract concealed patterns from mining of huge raw datasets then it establishes high-quality predictive models. At this juncture, we aimed to apply different ML techniques to develop clinical predictive models and select the best performance of them. The dataset of Ayatollah Talleghani hospital, COVID-19 focal center affiliated to Abadan University of Medical Sciences have been taken into consideration. The dataset used in this study consists of 501 case records with two classes (COVID-19 and non COVID-19) and 32 columns for the diagnostic features. ML algorithms such as Naive Bayesian, Bayesian Net, random forest (RF), multilayer perceptron, K-star, C4.5, and support vector machine were developed. Then, the recital of selected ML models was assessed by the comparison of some performance indices such as accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, precision, F-score, and receiver operating characteristic (ROC). The experimental results indicate that RF algorithm with the accuracy of 92.42%, specificity of 75.70%, precision of 92.30%, sensitivity of 92.40%, F-measure of 92.00%, and ROC of 97.15% has the best capability for COVID-19 diagnosis and screening. The empirical results reveal that RF model yielded higher performance as compared to other six classification models. It is promising to the implementation of RF model in the health-care settings to increase the accuracy and speed of disease diagnosis for primary prevention, screening, surveillance, and early treatment.
32360231 References The SARS-CoV-2 pandemic is a global emergency, and new therapeutics are needed. Molecular dynamics and structure-guided drug-binding analysis suggest that Arbidol may have potential to treat COVID-19. Arbidol impedes trimerization of SARS-CoV-2 spike glycoprotein and inhibits host cell adhesion. The binding mode of Arbidol to SARS-CoV-2 spike glycoprotein is similar to that of influenza virus haemagglutinin. The key residues of SARS-CoV-2 spike glycoprotein involved in Arbidol binding guide the development of new therapeutics. The severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) pandemic is a global public health emergency, and new therapeutics are needed. This article reports the potential drug target and mechanism of action of Arbidol (umifenovir) to treat coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). Molecular dynamics and structural analysis were used to show how Arbidol targets the SARS-CoV-2 spike glycoprotein and impedes its trimerization, which is key for host cell adhesion and hijacking, indicating the potential of Arbidol to treat COVID-19. It is hoped that knowledge of the potential drug target and mechanism of action of Arbidol will help in the development of new therapeutics for SARS-CoV-2.
34803106  Recently, the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2, has spread worldwide. Although nearly all patients incur mild-to-moderate disease from this viral infection, some develop severe manifestations with a poor prognosis. COVID-19 can also induce autoimmune disease; several cases of arthritis following COVID-19 have been documented in the literature, such as reactive arthritis and chronic arthritis. We herein report a case of psoriatic arthritis triggered by COVID-19. Although the arthritis had been refractory to glucocorticoids and methotrexate, certolizumab pegol subsequently led to remission.
33680350 References Coronavirus disease-19 (COVID-19)-induced severe acute respiratory syndrome is a global pandemic. As a preventive measure, human movement is restricted in most of the world. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the National Institutes of Health (NIH), along with the WHO have laid out some therapeutic guidelines for the infected patients. However, other than handwashing and vigilance surrounding commonly encountered oronasal symptoms and fever, no useful prophylactic measure has yet been established. In a pandemic, the accessibility of a prophylactic biologically active substance is crucial. Ideally, it would be something readily available at a low price to a larger percentage of the population with minimal risk. Studies have demonstrated that zinc may reduce viral replication and increase immune responses. For example, in some studies, zinc supplementation used against the influenza virus has been shown to yield clinical benefits with reduced disease burden. While consuming zinc (within the recommended upper safety limits), as a prophylactic might provide an additional shield against the initiation and progression of COVID-19 would need clinical studies, the potential clearly exists.
33840053 Author contributions Funding Data availability Declarations Conflict of interest References The negative impacts of proton pump inhibitor (PPI), including the risk of pneumonia and mortality, have been reported previously. This meta-analysis aimed to address the current interest of whether the administration of PPI could increase the susceptibility and risk of poor outcome in COVID-19. We performed a systematic literature search from PubMed, Embase, EBSCOhost, and EuropePMC databases up until 3 December 2020. The main outcome was composite poor outcome which comprised of mortality and severe COVID-19. Severe COVID-19 in this study was defined as patients with COVID-19 that fulfill the criteria for severe CAP, including the need for intensive unit care or mechanical ventilation. The secondary outcome was susceptibility, based on cohort comparing COVID-19 positive and COVID-19 negative participants. There were a total of 290,455 patients from 12 studies in this meta-analysis. PPI use was associated with increased composite poor outcome (OR 1.85 [1.13, 3.03], p = 0.014; I2 90.26%). Meta-regression analysis indicate that the association does not vary by age (OR 0.97 [0.92, 1.02], p = 0.244), male (OR 1.05 [0.99, 1.11], p = 0.091), hypertension (OR 9.98 [0.95, 1.02], p = 0.317), diabetes (OR 0.99 [0.93, 1.05], p = 0.699), chronic kidney disease (OR 1.01 [0.93, 1.10], p = 0.756), non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug use (OR 1.02 [0.96, 1.09], p = 0.499), and pre-admission/in-hospital PPI use (OR 0.77 [0.26, 2.31], p = 0.644). PPI use was not associated with the susceptibility to COVID-19 (OR 1.56 [0.48, 5.05], p = 0.46; I2 99.7%). This meta-analysis showed a potential association between PPI use and composite poor outcome, but not susceptibility. PROSPERO ID: CRD42020224286.
34545952 References 
35081177 References 
35206434 Supplementary Materials Author Contributions Funding Institutional Review Board Statement Informed Consent Statement Data Availability Statement Conflicts of Interest References With the outbreak of the Corona Virus Disease 19 (Covid-19) in late 2019, governments increasingly imposed containment strategies, including social distancing as well as restricted population movement, potentially having negative impacts on mental and physical health. A growing number of studies have examined the impact of the pandemic on different facets of physical activity (PA); an overview combining these (mixed) results, however, is missing. Thus, the objective of this systematic review and meta-analysis was to investigate whether and to which extent PA changed from before to during the Covid-19 pandemic, taking age, gender, and measurement method into account. The literature search was conducted using PubMed, Web of Science, and Scopus. Results of the main characteristics were descriptively synthesized and analyzed in a meta-analysis quantifying effects of the pandemic on PA divided by age groups, with additional subgroup analyses of the characteristics age, gender, and measurement method being narratively synthesized. Overall, 57 studies with a total sample size of 119,094 participants (N between 10 and 60,560 subjects) from 14 countries worldwide with participants aged between four and 93 years were included. Thirty-two studies revealed a significant decline in PA, whereas only five studies found a significant increase in PA during the Covid-19 pandemic. Fourteen studies revealed mixed results. PA decreased in all age groups, independent of gender. Most self-reported and all device-based measurement methods showed a reduction in PA. However, effects were not found to be significant in all age groups. Nevertheless, the declining trend should be noted and governments should strive to enable PA within periods of pandemic restrictions, or promote alternatives such as digital training to avoid negative health consequences within the population.
35051664 References The aim of this study was to evaluate the ocular disorders in COVID-19 patients, two to three months after infection. In this cross-sectional, historically controlled study, fifty-one COVID-19 patients were compared with thirty-seven age, and gender-matched healthy individuals. After complete ophthalmological examination, all participants underwent peripapillary and macular optical coherence tomography, and optical coherence tomography angiography (OCTA) measurements (OptoVue Inc, Freemont, CA, USA). The time between the initial onset of symptoms, and ophthalmologic examination was 63.31+-15.21 (40-95 days). Ophthalmic examination of all the recovered COVID-19 patients was within normal range. None of the peripapillary and macular OCTA parameters were significantly different between the two groups with pairwise comparisons, but after adjusting for age, gender, axial length, and signal strength index (SSI), recovered COVID-19 eyes showed a significant increase in peripapillary retinal nerve fiber (RNFL) thickness, superficial, and deep macular vessel densities in parafoveal and perifoveal regions compared with healthy control eyes (p<= 0.05). Inner retinal thickness overall is higher in recovered COVID-19 eyes compared to healthy eyes after adjustment. Patients with moderate-intensity SARS-CoV-2 pneumonia had altered peripapillary and macular vessel density compared to healthy subjects. Further investigation is warranted to analyze the correlation of these changes with disease severity as well as evolution of these changes over time.
32495372  Emerging evidence suggests that activation of the complement system is critical in the pathogenesis of the novel coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2, the causative agent of COVID-19 related lung injury. Inhibition of the terminal complement pathway by targeting complement protein 5 (C5) may be an effective therapeutic intervention in CoV-mediated disease.1 Paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria (PNH) is a rare, acquired hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) disease characterized by intravascular haemolysis, increased thromboembolic risk and bone marrow failure.2
34958526 Abbreviations References 
32327321 References 
35283488 References 
35078495 Authors' contributions Funding Availability of data and materials Declarations Ethics approval and consent to participate Consent for publication Competing interests References 
32653855 References 
33647988 REFERENCES 
34591874 References Decision Letter 0 Author response to Decision Letter 0 Decision Letter 1 Author response to Decision Letter 1 Decision Letter 2 Acceptance letter Most universities that re-open in the United States (US) for in-person instruction have implemented the Centers for Disease Prevention and Control (CDC) guidelines. The value of additional interventions to prevent the transmission of SARS-CoV-2 is unclear. We calculated the cost-effectiveness and cases averted of each intervention in combination with implementing the CDC guidelines. We built a decision-analytic model to examine the cost-effectiveness of interventions to re-open universities. The interventions included implementing the CDC guidelines alone and in combination with 1) a symptom-checking mobile application, 2) university-provided standardized, high filtration masks, 3) thermal cameras for temperature screening, 4) one-time entry ('gateway') polymerase chain reaction (PCR) testing, and 5) weekly PCR testing. We also modeled a package of interventions ('package intervention') that combines the CDC guidelines with using the symptom-checking mobile application, standardized masks, gateway PCR testing, and weekly PCR testing. The direct and indirect costs were calculated in 2020 US dollars. We also provided an online interface that allows the user to change model parameters. All interventions averted cases of COVID-19. When the prevalence of actively infectious cases reached 0.1%, providing standardized, high filtration masks saved money and improved health relative to implementing the CDC guidelines alone and in combination with using the symptom-checking mobile application, thermal cameras, and gateway testing. Compared with standardized masks, weekly PCR testing cost $9.27 million (95% Credible Interval [CrI]: cost-saving-$77.36 million)/QALY gained. Compared with weekly PCR testing, the 'package' intervention cost $137,877 (95% CrI: $3,108-$19.11 million)/QALY gained. At both a prevalence of 1% and 2%, the 'package' intervention saved money and improved health compared to all the other interventions. All interventions were effective at averting infection from COVID-19. However, when the prevalence of actively infectious cases in the community was low, only standardized, high filtration masks clearly provided value.
32376401 References 
33509849 References To characterise the self-isolating household units (bubbles) during the COVID-19 Alert Level 4 lockdown in New Zealand. In this cross-sectional study, an online survey was distributed to a convenience sample via Facebook advertising and the Medical Research Institute of New Zealand's social media platforms and mailing list. Respondents were able to share a link to the survey via their own social media platforms and by email. Results were collected over 6 days during Alert Level 4 from respondents living in New Zealand, aged 16 years and over. The primary outcome was the mean size of a self-isolating household unit or bubble. Secondary outcomes included the mean number of households in each bubble, the proportion of bubbles containing essential workers and/or vulnerable people, and the mean number of times the home was left each week. 14 876 surveys were included in the analysis. The mean (SD) bubble size was 3.58 (4.63) people, with mean (SD) number of households 1.26 (0.77). The proportion of bubbles containing one or more essential workers, or one or more vulnerable persons was 45.3% and 42.1%, respectively. The mean number of times individual bubble members left their home in the previous week was 12.9 (12.4). Bubbles that contained at least one vulnerable individual had fewer outings over the previous week compared with bubbles that did not contain a vulnerable person. The bubble sizes were similar by respondent ethnicity. In this New Zealand convenience sample, bubble sizes were small, mostly limited to one household, and a high proportion contained essential workers and/or vulnerable people. Understanding these characteristics from a country which achieved a low COVID-19 infection rate may help inform public health interventions during this and future pandemics.
35220656 REFERENCES 
33114654 Author Contributions Funding Conflicts of Interest References Background: The COVID-19 pandemic is ongoing. The unprecedented challenges worldwide implore the urgent development of a safe and effective COVID-19 vaccine. Globally, pharmacists have been delivering important public health services as part of the COVID-19 response. It remains to be seen what role they will play once a vaccine is available. This review examines herd immunity and the potential role of the pharmacy profession in mass vaccination against COVID-19, particularly within the Australian context. Aim: A literature review was conducted to review the global development of COVID-19 vaccines, and the Australian healthcare workforce capability and existing policy for mass vaccination and the potential role of the pharmacist. Method: ScienceDirect, Scopus, The National Centre for Biotechnology Information (NCBI), Wiley Online Library, PubMed, and Google Scholar were used to search for relevant literature using keywords COVID-19, vaccines, immunisation, herd immunity, pandemic, pharmacist and Australian healthcare. Results: A large portion of the literature was journal articles, and information from governmental and international bodies such as the World Health Organisation were often referenced. Over 20 million Australians need to be immunised through vaccination or acquire immunity through natural infection for the country to achieve herd immunity for COVID-19. When examining state and territory pandemic plans, pharmacists are underutilised. Modifying legislation to allow pharmacists to administer approved COVID-19 vaccines will enable a trained and skilled workforce to be deployed to increase the rate of mass vaccination. Conclusion: In preparation for a successful COVID-19 vaccine, the Australian Government must consider various elements in their vaccination policy. This includes the estimated herd immunity threshold, methods of vaccine delivery, vaccine clinic locations, staffing arrangements and training, and strategies for vaccine prioritisation. Pharmacists can and should play a key role in the roll out of mass COVID-19 vaccination.
32673509 References 
34436248 Author Contributions Funding Institutional Review Board Statement Informed Consent Statement Data Availability Statement Conflicts of Interest References The ongoing pandemic has led to an urgent need for novel drug discovery and potential therapeutics for Sars-CoV-2 infected patients. Although Remdesivir and the anti-inflammatory agent dexamethasone are currently on the market for treatment, Remdesivir lacks full efficacy and thus, more drugs are needed. This review was conducted through literature search of PubMed, MDPI, Google Scholar and Scopus. Upon review of existing literature, it is evident that marine organisms harbor numerous active metabolites with anti-viral properties that serve as potential leads for COVID-19 therapy. Inorganic polyphosphates (polyP) naturally found in marine bacteria and sponges have been shown to prevent viral entry, induce the innate immune response, and downregulate human ACE-2. Furthermore, several marine metabolites isolated from diverse sponges and algae have been shown to inhibit main protease (Mpro), a crucial protein required for the viral life cycle. Sulfated polysaccharides have also been shown to have potent anti-viral effects due to their anionic properties and high molecular weight. Likewise, select marine sponges produce bromotyrosines which have been shown to prevent viral entry, replication and protein synthesis. The numerous compounds isolated from marine resources demonstrate significant potential against COVID-19. The present review for the first time highlights marine bioactive compounds, their sources, and their anti-viral mechanisms of action, with a focus on potential COVID-19 treatment.
32446801 References A novel small enveloped RNA virus with the typical characteristic of the family to which it belongs, a crown, hence the name coronavirus, appeared in December 2019 in Wuhan, China, and subdued the world to its influence. The particular severity of the disease and higher mortality rates in patients with associated morbidities, including hypertension, obesity and diabetes, increases the concern over the consequences of this pandemic. In this review, the features of SARS-CoV-2 will be addressed, as well as the reasons why it poses a particular challenge to diabetic patients. We will also highlight the recent treatment strategies being explored to control this pandemic. Emerging evidence demonstrates that the correct management of diabetes in those patients infected with SARS-CoV-2 is of utmost importance for the viral disease progression, therefore, the importance of blood glucose control will also be addressed.
35309721 References Vaccine uptake was low among jail residents but increased with repeated offers. Concerns around side effects and efficacy were major reasons for vaccine hesitancy. Jail residents trusted jail health staff less than their doctor outside jail. Trust in medical personnel was associated with greater vaccine acceptance. Friends/family were the most trusted source for COVID-19 information. Carceral facilities are high-risk settings for COVID-19 transmission. Factors associated with COVID-19 vaccine acceptance and hesitancy among incarcerated individuals are poorly understood, especially among jail residents. Here, we conducted a retrospective review of electronic health record (EHR) data on COVID-19 vaccine uptake in custody and additionally administered a survey to assess reasons for vaccine hesitancy, sources of COVID-19 information, and medical mistrust among residents of four Northern California jails. We performed multivariate logistic regression to determine associations with vaccine acceptance. Of 2,564 jail residents offered a COVID-19 vaccine between March 19, 2021 and June 30, 2021, 1,441 (56.2%) accepted at least one dose. Among vaccinated residents, 497 (34.5%) had initially refused. Vaccine uptake was higher among older individuals, women, those with recent flu vaccination, and those living in shared housing. Among 509 survey respondents, leading reasons for vaccine hesitancy were concerns around side effects and suboptimal efficacy, with cost and the need for an annual booster being other hypothetical deterrents to vaccination. Vaccine hesitancy was also associated with mistrust of medical personnel in and out of jail, although this association varied by race/ethnicity. Television and friends/family were the most common and most trusted sources of COVID-19 information, respectively. Overall, vaccine acceptance was much lower among jail residents than the local and national general population. Interventions to increase vaccination rates in this setting should utilize accessible and trusted sources of information to address concerns about side effects and efficacy, while working to mitigate medical and institutional mistrust among residents.
35321490 Note References Using the Roman Catholic Church's set of moral principles on social concerns called Catholic social teaching (CST) and utilizing some secondary data and scientific research literature, this article examines the morality of India and South Africa's request to the World Trade Organization (WTO) to temporarily suspend the property rights and patents of top pharmaceutical companies to their vaccines to allow low-income countries to locally manufacture them to save the lives of the poor during this COVID-19 pandemic. Applying the theological method of "See-Judge-and-Act," this article argues that the suspension of patents for COVID vaccines is morally justifiable in the light of CST's principles on the universal destination of earth's goods, the common good, and preferential option for the poor. The top pharmaceutical companies cannot claim absolute ownership to their vaccines as they do not totally own and fund the entire development and production process. Furthermore, the right to private ownership and patents has a social dimension and must serve the common good and welfare of the poor, especially in times of global emergency such as the COVID-19 pandemic. Patent holders have a moral obligation to promote the common good and save the lives of the poor which must prevail over their capitalist quest for profit. This article recommends that Catholics and Christians must join this crusade for the suspension of patents as part of their spirituality of social transformation. Summary: Applying the Roman Catholic Church's set of moral principles on social concerns called CST and utilizing some secondary data and scientific research literature, this article examines the morality of India and South Africa's request to the World Trade Organization to temporarily suspend the property rights and patents of top pharmaceutical companies to their vaccines to allow low-income countries to locally manufacture them to save the lives of the poor during the current pandemic. Applying the theological method of "See-Judge-and-Act," this article argues that the suspension of patents for COVID vaccines is morally justifiable in the light of CST's principles on the universal destination of earth goods, the common good, and preferential option for the poor. It recommends that Catholics and Christians must join this crusade for the suspension of patents as part of their spirituality of social transformation. Short Summary: This article argues that patents of the top pharmaceutical companies to their COVID-19 vaccines must be suspended as requested by India and South Africa in the WTO in the light of CST's moral principles on the universal destination of earth's goods, the common good, and preferential option for the poor.
32493494 Authors' contributions Funding Availability of data and materials Ethics approval and consent to participate Consent for publication Competing interests SARS-CoV-2 infection presents a high transmission in the group of health professionals in Spain (12-15% infected). Currently there is no accepted chemoprophylaxis but hydroxychloroquine (HDQ) is known to inhibit the coronavirus in vitro. Our hypothesis is that oral administration of hydroxychloroquine to healthcare professionals can reduce the incidence and prevalence of infection as well as its severity in this group. Design: Prospective, single center, double blind, randomised, controlled trial (RCT). Participants: Adult health-care professionals (18-65 years) working in areas of high exposure and high risk of transmission of SARS-COV-2 (COVID areas, Intensive Care Unit -ICUs-, Emergency, Anesthesia and all those performing aerosol-generating procedures) will be included. Exclusion criteria include previous infection with SARS CoV2 (positive SARS-CoV-2 PCR or IgG serology), pregnancy or lactation, any contraindication to hydroxychloroquine or evidence of unstable or clinically significant systemic disease. Patients will be randomized (1:1) to receive once-daily oral Hydroxychloroquine 200mg for two months (HC group) or placebo (P group) in addition to the protective measures appropriate to the level of exposure established by the hospital. A serological evaluation will be carried out every 15 days with PCR in case of seroconversion, symptoms or risk exposure. Primary outcome is the percentage of subjects presenting infection (seroconversion and/or PCR +ve) by the SARS-Cov-2 virus during the observation period. Additionally, both the percentage of subjects in each group presenting Pneumonia with severity criteria (Curb 65 >=2) and that of subjects requiring admission to ICU will be determined. While awaiting a vaccine, hygiene measures, social distancing and personal protective equipment are the only primary prophylaxis measures against SARS-CoV-2, but they have not been sufficient to protect our healthcare professionals. Some evidence of the in vitro efficacy of hydroxychloroquine against this virus is known, along with some clinical data that would support the study of this drug in the chemoprophylaxis of infection. However, there are still no data from controlled clinical trials in this regard. If our hypothesis is confirmed, hydroxychloroquine can help professionals fight this infection with more guarantees. This is a single-center study that will be carried out at the Marques de Valdecilla University Hospital. 450 health professionals working at the Hospital Universitario Marques de Valdecilla in areas of high exposure and high risk of transmission of SARS COV2 (COVID hospital areas, Intensive Care Unit, Emergency, Anesthesia and all those performing aerosol-generating procedures) will be included. Inclusion criteria: 1) Health professionals aged between 18 and 65 years (inclusive) at the time of the first screening visit; 2) They must provide signed written informed consent and agree to comply with the study protocol; 3) Active work in high exposure areas during the last two weeks and during the following weeks. Exclusion criteria: 1) Previous infection with SARS CoV2 (positive coronavirus PCR or positive serology with SARS Cov2 negative PCR and absence of symptoms); 2) Current treatment with hydroxychloroquine or chloroquine; 3) Hypersensitivity, allergy or any contraindication for taking hydroxychloroquine, in the technical sheet; 4) Previous or current treatment with tamoxifen or raloxifene; 5) Previous eye disease, especially maculopathy; 6) Known heart failure (Grade III to IV of the New York Heart Association classification) or prolonged QTc; 7) Any type of cancer (except basal cell) in the last 5 years; 6) Refusal to give informed consent; 8) Evidence of any other unstable or clinically significant untreated immune, endocrine, hematological, gastrointestinal, neurological, neoplastic or psychiatric illness; 9) Antibodies positive for the human immunodeficiency virus; 10) Significant kidney or liver disease; 11) Pregnancy or lactation. Intervention: (n = 225): One 200 mg hydroxychloroquine sulfate coated tablet once daily for two months. Comparator (control group) (n = 225): One hydroxychloroquine placebo tablet (identical to that of the drug) once daily for two months Two groups will be analyzed with a 1: 1 randomization rate. number and percentage of healthcare personnel presenting symptomatic and asymptomatic infection (see "Diagnosis of SARS CoV2 infection" below) by the SARS-Cov2 virus during the study observation period (8 weeks) in both treatment arms; number and percentage of healthcare personnel in each group presenting with Pneumonia with severity criteria (Curb 65 >=2) and number and percentage of healthcare personnel requiring admission to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) in both treatment arms. The primary outcome of this study will be to evaluate: Determination of IgA, IgM and IgG type antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 using the Anti-SARS-CoV-2 ELISA kit (EUROIMMUN Medizinische Labordiagnostika AG, Germany) every two weeks. In cases of seroconversion, a SARS-CoV-2 PCR will be performed to rule out / confirm an active infection (RT-PCR in One Step: RT performed with mastermix (Takara) and IDT probes, following protocol published and validated by the CDC Evaluation of COVID-19 in case of SARS-CoV-2 infection Participants will be allocated to intervention and comparator groups according to a balanced randomization scheme (1: 1). The assignment will be made through a computer-generated numeric sequence for all participants Both participants and investigators responsible for recruiting and monitoring participants will be blind to the assigned arm. Taking into account the current high prevalence of infection in healthcare personnel in Spain (up to 15%), to detect a difference equal to or greater than 8% in the percentage estimates through a two-tailed 95% CI, with a statistical power of 80% and a dropout rate of 5%, a total of 450 participants will need to be included (250 in each arm). The protocol approved by the health authorities in Spain (Spanish Agency for Medicines and Health Products "AEMPS") and the Ethics and Research Committee of Cantabria (CEIm Cantabria) corresponds to version 1.1 of April 2, 2020. Currently, recruitment has not yet started, with the start scheduled for the second week of May 2020. Eudra CT number: 2020-001704-42 (Registered on 29 March 2020) The full protocol is attached as an additional file, accessible from the Trials website (Additional file 1). In the interest in expediting dissemination of this material, the familiar formatting has been eliminated; this Letter serves as a summary of the key elements of the full protocol. The study protocol has been reported in accordance with the Standard Protocol Items: Recommendations for Clinical Interventional Trials (SPIRIT) guidelines (Additional file 2).
32330531 References To describe and evaluate a risk-stratified triage pathway for inpatient urology consultations during the SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) pandemic. This pathway seeks to outline a urology patient care strategy that reduces the transmission risk to both healthcare providers and patients, reduces the healthcare burden, and maintains appropriate patient care. Consultations to the urology service during a 3-week period (March 16 to April 2, 2020) were triaged and managed via one of 3 pathways: Standard, Telemedicine, or High-Risk. Standard consults were in-person consults with non COVID-19 patients, High-Risk consults were in-person consults with COVID-19 positive/suspected patients, and Telemedicine consults were telephonic consults for low-acuity urologic issues in either group of patients. Patient demographics, consultation parameters and consultation outcomes were compared to consultations from the month of March 2019. Categorical variables were compared using Chi-square test and continuous variables using Mann-Whitney U test. A P value <.05 was considered significant. Between March 16 and April 2, 2020, 53 inpatient consultations were performed. By following our triage pathway, a total of 19/53 consultations (35.8%) were performed via Telemedicine with no in-person exposure, 10/53 consultations (18.9%) were High-Risk, in which we strictly controlled the urology team member in-person contact, and the remainder, 24/53 consultations (45.2%), were performed as Standard in-person encounters. COVID-19 associated consultations represented 18/53 (34.0%) of all consultations during this period, and of these, 8/18 (44.4%) were managed successfully via Telemedicine alone. No team member developed COVID-19 infection. During the COVID-19 pandemic, most urology consultations can be managed in a patient and physician safety-conscious manner, by implementing a novel triage pathway.
35586079 References Knowledge, attitudes, and misconceptions of students about COVID-19 (coronavirus disease) prevention have been examined in relatively few studies. This study aimed to assess the knowledge, attitudes and misconceptions about COVID-19 prevention practices among high and preparatory school (grades 9 to 12) students in Dessie City, Ethiopia. This school-based cross-sectional study used a pre-tested structured questionnaire and direct observations from March 1 to 30, 2021 in 5 high and preparatory school students in Dessie City, Ethiopia. The sample size was proportionally allocated in each school based on the number of students registered in the first semester, stratified by grade level, and section. Data analysis employed 3 binary logistic regression models (Models I, II and III) with 95% CI (confidence interval). Bivariate analysis (crude odds ratio [COR]) and multivariable analysis (adjusted odds ratio [AOR]) were used. Variables with P-values <0.3 in the bivariate analysis were retained in the multivariable logistic regression analysis for each model. Variables with significance levels P<0.05 in the multivariable analysis of each model was identified as significant factors. The levels of good knowledge, positive attitudes, and low misconceptions were 74.8%, 60.2%, and 56.1%, respectively. After adjusting for the covariates, grade 12, positive attitude and living in households with more than 5 members were identified as factors significantly associated with good knowledge about COVID-19 prevention practices. Good knowledge of COVID-19 prevention practices, household size >5, infection prevention and control (IPC) training, and low level of misconceptions were factors significantly associated with positive attitudes, whereas students age >=18 years, positive attitude, and IPC training were factors significantly associated with less misconceptions about COVID-19 prevention measures. The prevalence of good knowledge, positive attitude, and low level of misconceptions of prevention practices for COVID-19 among students was relatively low. Therefore, Dessie City Health and Education Department and each high and preparatory school should implement continuous monitoring programs to ensure high prevention awareness and promote preventive behavior towards COVID-19.
33591938 REFERENCES The COVID-19 pandemic has now imposed an enormous global burden as well as a large mortality in a short time period. Although there is no promising treatment, identification of early predictors of in-hospital mortality would be critically important in reducing its worldwide mortality. We aimed to suggest a prediction model for in-hospital mortality of COVID-19. In this case-control study, we recruited 513 confirmed patients with COVID-19 from February 18 to March 26, 2020 from Isfahan COVID-19 registry. Based on extracted laboratory, clinical, and demographic data, we created an in-hospital mortality predictive model using gradient boosting. We also determined the diagnostic performance of the proposed model including sensitivity, specificity, and area under the curve (AUC) as well as their 95% CIs. Of 513 patients, there were 60 (11.7%) in-hospital deaths during the study period. The diagnostic values of the suggested model based on the gradient boosting method with oversampling techniques using all of the original data were specificity of 98.5% (95% CI: 96.8-99.4), sensitivity of 100% (95% CI: 94-100), negative predictive value of 100% (95% CI: 99.2-100), positive predictive value of 89.6% (95% CI: 79.7-95.7), and an AUC of 98.6%. The suggested model may be useful in making decision to patient's hospitalization where the probability of mortality may be more obvious based on the final variable. However, moderate gaps in our knowledge of the predictors of in-hospital mortality suggest further studies aiming at predicting models for in-hospital mortality in patients with COVID-19.
33682315 REFERENCES To investigate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the quality of life and social networks of older adults receiving community care services. Quality of life and social network questionnaires were completed by older adults (n = 21) receiving home care services at three time points (2018, 2019, and during the first Australian COVID-19 lockdown in 2020). Additional questions about technology use were included in 2020. Older adults' quality of life significantly decreased during the pandemic compared to the prior year. During the pandemic, over 80% used technology to maintain contact with family and friends, and social networks did not change. Government messages and support initiatives directed towards technology adoption among older adults receiving home care may assist with maintaining social connection during COVID-19. Our findings add to the relatively limited understanding of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the socio-emotional well-being of older people.
34790223 References Clinical outcome assessments of function or strength, assessed by physical therapists, are commonly used as primary endpoints in clinical trials, natural history studies and within clinics for individuals with neuromuscular disorders. These evaluations not only inform the efficacy of investigational agents in clinical trials, but also importantly track disease trajectory to prospectively advise need for equipment, home and work modifications, and other assistive devices. The COVID-19 pandemic had a global impact on the safety and feasibility of in-person visits and assessments, necessitating rapid development of mitigation strategies to ensure ongoing collection of key clinical trial endpoints and access to expert clinical care despite travel restrictions. Physical therapists who are expert in neuromuscular disorders working across clinics, countries, and clinical trials developed initial guidelines and methods for the suitability and feasibility of performing remote evaluations. A number of Sponsors introduced amendments to their study protocols to enable remote evaluations, supported by live video streaming of the assessment to their local clinical evaluators. Similarly, application of these techniques to clinical telemedicine enabled objective evaluations for use in payer discussions, equipment procurement, and general access to expert physical therapy services. Here we report on our methodology for adapting current practices to remote testing and considerations for remote evaluations.
34568168 References Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) was transported from China to Iran via passengers. The virus is transmitted through droplets from coughing, sneezing, talking and contact with infected surfaces. Due to high transmissibility in places such as clinics, medical offices, buses and offices where there are large crowds, it spread rapidly in Iran and caused the mortality of a significant number of people, especially the elderly with underlying disease. Preventing travel and gatherings, as well as applying house quarantine in Apr 2020, reduced COVID-19 somewhat but then due to lack of attention to social distancing, reducing the use of masks by the people and inappropriate decisions by the national committee on combating coronavirus (NCCC), including reducing the working hours of public offices and shops, reducing the staff of government offices, monopoly on the distribution of essential materials and supplies, the presence of overcrowding in clinics of medical centers, hospitals, and private clinics caused the decline of the disease in the country to decrease. Measures can be taken to prevent the spread of the virus as much as possible, including: rapid detection of infected people, their isolation, contact tracing, quarantine of people over 65 and under 15, protection of the elderly, prevention of gatherings, forcing the use of protective equipment in possible gatherings, and electronicizing public services.
35284994 References The SARS-CoV-2 pandemic necessitated better understanding of the impact of disease-modifying therapies on COVID-19 outcomes and vaccination. We report characteristics of COVID-19 cases and vaccination status in ofatumumab-treated relapsing multiple sclerosis (RMS) patients. COVID-19 data analyzed were from the ongoing, open-label, long-term extension phase 3b ALITHIOS study from December 2019 (pandemic start) and post-marketing cases from August 2020 (ofatumumab first approval) up to 25 September 2021. COVID-19 cases, severity, seriousness, outcomes, vaccination status, and breakthrough infection were evaluated. As of 25 September 2021, 245 of 1703 patients (14.3%) enrolled in ALITHIOS receiving ofatumumab (median exposure: 2.45 years) reported COVID-19 (confirmed: 210; suspected: 35). Most COVID-19 was of mild (44.1%) or moderate (46.5%) severity, but 9% had severe/life-threatening COVID-19. There were 24 serious cases (9.8%) with 23 patients were hospitalized; 22 recovered and 2 died. At study cut-off, 241 patients (98.4%) had recovered or were recovering or had recovered with sequelae and 2 (0.8%) had not recovered. Ofatumumab was temporarily interrupted in 39 (15.9%) patients. Before COVID-19 onset, IgG levels were within the normal range in all COVID-19-affected patients, while IgM was < 0.4 g/l in 23 (9.4%) patients. No patient had a reinfection. Overall, 559 patients were vaccinated (full, 476; partial, 74; unspecified, 9). Breakthrough infection was reported in 1.5% (7/476) patients, and 11 reported COVID-19 after partial vaccination. As of 25 September 2021, the Novartis Safety Database (~ 4713 patient-treatment years) recorded 90 confirmed COVID-19 cases receiving ofatumumab. Most cases were non-serious (n = 80), and ten were serious (1 medically significant, 9 hospitalized, 0 deaths). Among 36 of 90 cases with outcomes reported, 30 recovered and 6 did not recover. COVID-19 in RMS patients on ofatumumab was primarily of mild/moderate severity and non-serious in these observational data. Most recovered from COVID-19 without treatment interruption. Two people died with COVID-19. Breakthrough COVID-19 despite being fully/partially vaccinated was uncommon. The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s40120-022-00341-z.
32730222 Appendix Abbreviations The coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic has led to rapid acceleration in the deployment of new digital technologies to improve both accessibility to and quality of care, and to protect staff. Mixed-reality (MR) technology is the latest iteration of telemedicine innovation; it is a logical next step in the move toward the provision of digitally supported clinical care and medical education. This technology has the potential to revolutionize care both during and after the COVID-19 pandemic. This pilot project sought to deploy the HoloLens2 MR device to support the delivery of remote care in COVID-19 hospital environments. A prospective, observational, nested cohort evaluation of the HoloLens2 was undertaken across three distinct clinical clusters in a teaching hospital in the United Kingdom. Data pertaining to staff exposure to high-risk COVID-19 environments and personal protective equipment (PPE) use by clinical staff (N=28) were collected, and assessments of acceptability and feasibility were conducted. The deployment of the HoloLens2 led to a 51.5% reduction in time exposed to harm for staff looking after COVID-19 patients (3.32 vs 1.63 hours/day/staff member; P=.002), and an 83.1% reduction in the amount of PPE used (178 vs 30 items/round/day; P=.02). This represents 222.98 hours of reduced staff exposure to COVID-19, and 3100 fewer PPE items used each week across the three clusters evaluated. The majority of staff using the device agreed it was easy to set up and comfortable to wear, improved the quality of care and decision making, and led to better teamwork and communication. In total, 89.3% (25/28) of users felt that their clinical team was safer when using the HoloLens2. New technologies have a role in minimizing exposure to nosocomial infection, optimizing the use of PPE, and enhancing aspects of care. Deploying such technologies at pace requires context-specific information security, infection control, user experience, and workflow integration to be addressed at the outset and led by clinical end-users. The deployment of new telemedicine technology must be supported with objective evidence for its safety and effectiveness to ensure maximum impact.
32673494 REFERENCES 
33720028 Appendix Abbreviations The collection of data from a personal digital device to characterize current health conditions and behaviors that determine how an individual's health will evolve has been called digital phenotyping. In this paper, we describe the development of and early experiences with a comprehensive digital phenotyping platform: Health Outcomes through Positive Engagement and Self-Empowerment (HOPES). HOPES is based on the open-source Beiwe platform but adds a wider range of data collection, including the integration of wearable devices and further sensor collection from smartphones. Requirements were partly derived from a concurrent clinical trial for schizophrenia that required the development of significant capabilities in HOPES for security, privacy, ease of use, and scalability, based on a careful combination of public cloud and on-premises operation. We describe new data pipelines to clean, process, present, and analyze data. This includes a set of dashboards customized to the needs of research study operations and clinical care. A test use case for HOPES was described by analyzing the digital behavior of 22 participants during the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic.
33435808 References The innate immune system, through pattern recognition receptors, intercepts any kind of pathogen and reacts through chemotactic, phagocyting, cytokines-secreting and cell-killing mechanisms in a very quick and effective way. Meanwhile, the adaptive immunity arm, through dendritic and T and B cells memory activation, is alerted and starts, more slowly, to produce antibodies, seen thanks to the progress of immunological investigations in comparative vertebrates, invertebrates, and vegetal models. However, it has been stated that the innate immune system also displays adaptive potential in terms of reinfection resistance through immune memory, in addition to the modulation of responses against repeated low doses of lipopolysaccharides (Lps) or cross-immunization, starting from one pathogenic species and extending to others.
34193877 Author contributions Competing interests References Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a severe complication of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) that negatively affects its outcome. Concern had been raised about the potential effect of renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) blockades on renal outcomes in COVID-19 patients. However, the association between RAAS blockade use and incident AKI in COVID-19 patients has not been fully understood. We investigated the association between RAAS blockade exposure and COVID-19-related AKI in hospitalized patients through meta-analysis. Electronic databases were searched up to 24th December 2020. Summary estimates of pooled odds ratio (OR) of COVID-19-related AKI depending on RAAS blockade exposure were obtained through random-effects model. The random-effect meta-analysis on fourteen studies (17,876 patients) showed that RAAS blockade use was significantly associated with increased risk of incident AKI in hospitalized COVID-19 patients (OR 1.68; 95% confidence interval 1.19-2.36). Additional analysis showed that the association of RAAS blockade use on COVID-19-related AKI remains significant even after stratification by drug class and AKI severity. RAAS blockade use is significantly associated with the incident AKI in hospitalized COVID-19 patients. Therefore, careful monitoring of renal complications is recommended for COVID-19 patients with recent RAAS blockade use due to the potential risk of AKI.
34627082 References Recent studies have provided evidence of T cell reactivity to Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) in significant numbers of non-infected individuals, which has been attributed to cross-reactive CD4 memory T cells from previous exposure to seasonal coronaviruses. Less evidence of cross-reactive memory CD8 T cells has been documented to date. We used the NetCTLPan neural network of the Epitope Database and Analysis Resource to select a series of 27 HLA-A*02:01 epitopes derived from the proteome of SARS-CoV-2. Their binding capacity was assessed by a HLA-A*02:01 stabilization assay and by quantifying their binding to HLA-A*02:01 monomers for the generation of tetramers. Their ability to stimulate and induce expansion of SARS-CoV-2 reactive CD8 T cells was measured by flow cytometry. The TCR repertoire of COVID convalescent and healthy unexposed donors was analysed using the MIRA database. The HLA-A*02:01 epitopes tested were able to stabilise HLA molecules and induce activation of CD8 T cells of healthy unexposed donors. Our results, based on specific tetramer binding, provide evidence supporting the presence of frequent cross-reactive CD8 T cells to SARS-CoV-2 antigens in non-exposed individuals. Interestingly, the reactive cells were distributed into naive, memory and effector subsets. Our data are consistent with a significant proportion of the reactive CD8 T clones belonging to the public shared repertoire, readily available in absence of previous contact with closely related coronaviruses. Furthermore, we demonstrate the immunogenic capacity of long peptides carrying T cell epitopes, which can serve to isolate virus-specific T cell receptors among the ample repertoire of healthy unexposed subjects and could have application in COVID-19 immunotherapy. Limitations of our study are that it concentrated on one MHC I allele (HLA-A*02:01) and the low numbers of samples and epitopes tested.
32343996 References 
32387409 References In France, the combination hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) and azithromycin (AZ) is used in the treatment of COVID-19. We retrospectively report on 1061 SARS-CoV-2 positive tested patients treated for at least three days with the following regimen: HCQ (200 mg three times daily for ten days) + AZ (500 mg on day 1 followed by 250 mg daily for the next four days). Outcomes were death, clinical worsening (transfer to ICU, and >10 day hospitalization) and viral shedding persistence (>10 days). A total of 1061 patients were included in this analysis (46.4% male, mean age 43.6 years - range 14-95 years). Good clinical outcome and virological cure were obtained in 973 patients within 10 days (91.7%). Prolonged viral carriage was observed in 47 patients (4.4%) and was associated to a higher viral load at diagnosis (p < .001) but viral culture was negative at day 10. All but one, were PCR-cleared at day 15. A poor clinical outcome (PClinO) was observed for 46 patients (4.3%) and 8 died (0.75%) (74-95 years old). All deaths resulted from respiratory failure and not from cardiac toxicity. Five patients are still hospitalized (98.7% of patients cured so far). PClinO was associated with older age (OR 1.11), severity of illness at admission (OR 10.05) and low HCQ serum concentration. PClinO was independently associated with the use of selective beta-blocking agents and angiotensin II receptor blockers (p < .05). A total of 2.3% of patients reported mild adverse events (gastrointestinal or skin symptoms, headache, insomnia and transient blurred vision). Administration of the HCQ+AZ combination before COVID-19 complications occur is safe and associated with a very low fatality rate in patients.
34237727 References The COVID-19 pandemic overwhelmed health-care systems worldwide, and medical care for other acute diseases was negatively impacted. We aimed to investigate the effect of the COVID-19 outbreak on admission rates and in-hospital care for acute stroke and transient ischemic attack (TIA) in Israel, shortly after the start of the pandemic. We conducted a retrospective observational study, based on data reported to the Israeli National Stroke Registry from 7 tertiary hospitals. All hospital admissions for acute stroke or TIA that occurred between January 1 and April 30, 2020 were included. Data were stratified into 2 periods according to the timing of COVID-19 restrictions as follows: (1) "pre-pandemic" - January 1 to March 7, 2020 and (2) "pandemic" - March 8 to April 30, 2020. We compared the weekly counts of hospitalizations between the 2 periods. We further investigated changes in demographic characteristics and in some key parameters of stroke care, including the percentage of reperfusion therapies performed, time from hospital arrival to brain imaging and to thrombolysis, length of hospital stay, and in-hospital mortality. 2,260 cases were included: 1,469 in the pre-COVID-19 period and 791 in the COVID-19 period. Hospital admissions significantly declined between the 2 periods, by 48% for TIA (rate ratio [RR] = 0.52; 95% CI 0.43-0.64) and by 29% for stroke (RR = 0.71; 95% CI 0.64-0.78). No significant changes were detected in demographic characteristics and in most parameters of stroke management. While the percentage of reperfusion therapies performed remained unchanged, the absolute number of patients treated with reperfusion therapies seemed to decrease. Higher in-hospital mortality was observed only for hemorrhagic stroke. The marked decrease in admissions for acute stroke and TIA, occurring at a time of a relatively low burden of COVID-19, is of great concern. Public awareness campaigns are needed as patients reluctant to seek urgent stroke care are deprived of lifesaving procedures and secondary prevention treatments.
34845183 Author contributions Competing interests Ethical approval References 
33855698 References 
34870100 References Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) is a novel viral disease with person-to-person transmission that has spread to many countries since the end of 2019. Although many unknowns were resolved within a year and the vaccine is available, it is still a major global health problem. COVID-19 infection may present with a considerably wide spectrum of severity and host factors play a significant role in determining the course of the disease. One of these factors is blood groups. Based on previous experience, it is believed that the ABO blood group type affects prognosis, treatment response and length of stay in the hospital. In this study, our aim was to evaluate whether the blood group had an effect on the length of the hospital stay. To the best of our knowledge, no previous studies have assessed the effect of ABO blood groups, as well as age, on the length of the hospital stay in these settings. In this retrospective cohort study, 969 patients admitted to our hospital between March 15, 2020 and May 15, 2020 were evaluated. The patients were divided into 4 groups according to ABO blood groups. The effect of the ABO blood group by age on the course of the disease, need for intensive care, duration of hospitalization and mortality in patients with COVID-19 infection, especially in geriatric patients, was evaluated. Of all the patients, 9.1% required admission to the intensive care unit (ICU), of whom 83% died. The average length of ICU stay was 11 days (0 - 59). The observed mortality rates in blood groups A, B, AB and 0 were 86.4%, 93.3%, 80.0% and 70.8%, respectively, indicating similar death rates in all ABO blood types. When the Rh phenotype was taken into consideration, no significant changes in results were seen. As a result, we could not observe a significant relationship between blood groups and clinical outcomes in this study, which included a sample of Turkish patients with COVID-19.
35310793 REFERENCES Moving away from invasive ventilation towards timed position change and non-invasive ventilation is especially of benefit in low and middle income countries, where judicious use of the available healthcare resources is the need of the day. Our study was conducted prospectively to develop strategies for non-invasive ventilation in combination with timed position change of patients to see its impact on their outcome. Non-invasive ventilation has proven to be of benefit in COVID-19 related acute lung injury. The objective of this prospective, cross sectional study was to develop a protocol for the use of non-invasive ventilation with timed position change to improve COVID-19 patients' outcomes in the Emergency Department (ED). All patients presenting with confirmed or suspected COVID-19 were enrolled in the study from March 2020 to October 2020. Data was collected to see the effect of timed position change and non-invasive ventilation on these patients and its effect on delaying or avoiding invasive ventilation. Of the 207 COVID-19 patients presenting to the IHHN ED, 109(52.7%) had oxygen saturation in the nineties in supine position followed by right lateral in 37(17.9%), sitting up in 30(14.5%), left lateral in 29(14%) and prone position in 2(1%). Maximal oxygenation was achieved with non rebreather mask (NRM) and nasal prongs in 87(42%) of the patients, followed by the use of continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) in 29(14%). Most of the patients preferred to stay in the supine position and described it as the position of comfort. When used in combination supine position, patients on NRM with nasal prongs and on CPAP, had oxygen saturation in the nineties. Central obesity was found to be the prime reason for the inability to prone our patients. This needs to be followed up in the current fourth wave of COVID-19 to see the effectiveness of the said modalities.
34682939 Author Contributions Funding Institutional Review Board Statement Informed Consent Statement Data Availability Statement Conflicts of Interest References The Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) global pandemic since its onset has had a dramatic and often devastating impact, both physical and psychological, on all healthcare workers. This study aimed to assess the impact of psychological distress that COVID-19 has on nurses, as well as the coping strategies that they employed. This is a cross-sectional national online survey. A total of 859 nurses actively involved in caring for patients with suspected or confirmed COVID-19 in Malaysia participated in the study. More than three-quarters of the nurses experienced stress (77.2%). A total of 88.7% and 7.2% of nurses revealed a moderate and high stress level, respectively. Approximately one in eight (12.1%) nurses reported feeling depressed. Nurses working in the outpatient departments reported significantly higher stress levels than nurses working in inpatient care departments. Nurses having chronic health problems reported significantly higher depression levels than nurses with no chronic health problem. Highly stressed or depressed nurses tend to adopt avoidance coping strategies while religion and emotional support were used regardless of the stress or depression levels experienced. The findings of the study provide insight into the mental health and coping strategies of nurses actively involved in caring for patients with suspected or confirmed COVID-19 in Malaysia. This would be of tremendous help to nursing administrators in implementing mental health services for nurses during and following the COVID-19 global pandemic.
35013191 Author contributions Peer review information Funding Data availability Competing interests References Anti-viral immunity continuously declines over time after SARS-CoV-2 infection. Here, we characterize the dynamics of anti-viral immunity during long-term follow-up and after BNT162b2 mRNA-vaccination in convalescents after asymptomatic or mild SARS-CoV-2 infection. Virus-specific and virus-neutralizing antibody titers rapidly declined in convalescents over 9 months after infection, whereas virus-specific cytokine-producing polyfunctional T cells persisted, among which IL-2-producing T cells correlated with virus-neutralizing antibody titers. Among convalescents, 5% of individuals failed to mount long-lasting immunity after infection and showed a delayed response to vaccination compared to 1% of naive vaccinees, but successfully responded to prime/boost vaccination. During the follow-up period, 8% of convalescents showed a selective increase in virus-neutralizing antibody titers without accompanying increased frequencies of circulating SARS-CoV-2-specific T cells. The same convalescents, however, responded to vaccination with simultaneous increase in antibody and T cell immunity revealing the strength of mRNA-vaccination to increase virus-specific immunity in convalescents. Waning immunity to SARS-CoV-2 is of concern. Here the authors follow spike- and nucleocapsid specific immunity in convalescent individuals for 9 months observing a decline in antibody levels but persisting T cell response. Vaccination approximately 11 months after infection boosts antibody and T cell immunity.
35165656  This study demonstrated good short-term safety profile after a third dose of BNT162b2 vaccine among HCWs. There were more frequent local reactions and less systemic reactions compared to the second dose. HCW's who reported reactions had higher pre-booster titer of anti-S1 antibodies compared to those reported no reactions.
35312380 References 
34415401 Author contributions Funding Declarations Conflict of interest References To compare current General Medical Practitioner treatment as usual (TAU) for the treatment of female urinary incontinence with a novel disposable home electro-stimulation device (Pelviva). Open label, Primary Care post-market evaluation. 86 women with urinary incontinence were randomly assigned to one of two 12-week treatments: TAU or Pelviva for 30 min every other day plus TAU. Outcome measures included ICIQ-UI (primary), PISQ-IR, PGI-S / PGI-I and FSFI (secondary) at recruitment and immediately after intervention, 1-h pad test at recruitment and usage diaries throughout. Pelviva plus TAU produced significantly better outcome than TAU alone: 3 versus 1 point for ICIQ-UI (Difference - 1.8 95% CI: - 3.5 to - 0.1, P = 0.033). Significant differences were also observed for PGI-I at both 6 weeks (P = 0.001) and 12 weeks (P < 0.001). In the Pelviva group, 17% of women described themselves as feeling very much better and 54% a little or much better compared to 0% and 15% in the TAU. Overall PISQ-IR score reached statistical significance (P = 0.032) seemingly related to impact (P = 0.027). No other outcome measures reached statistical significance. Premature termination due to COVID-19 meant only 86 women were recruited from a sample size of 264. TAU did not reflect NICE guidelines. This study suggests Pelviva is more successful than TAU in treating urinary incontinence in Primary Care. The study had reduced power due to early termination due to COVID-19 and suggests TAU does not follow NICE guidelines.
33330343 References Context: The human development territories have been severely constrained under the Covid-19 pandemic. A common dynamics has been observed, but its propagation has not been homogeneous over each continent. We aimed at characterizing the non-viral parameters that were most associated with death rate. Methods: We tested major indices from five domains (demography, public health, economy, politics, environment) and their potential associations with Covid-19 mortality during the first 8 months of 2020, through a Principal Component Analysis and a correlation matrix with a Pearson correlation test. Data of all countries, or states in federal countries, showing at least 10 fatality cases, were retrieved from official public sites. For countries that have not yet finished the first epidemic phase, a prospective model has been computed to provide options of death rates evolution. Results: Higher Covid death rates are observed in the [25/65 ] latitude and in the [-35/-125 ] longitude ranges. The national criteria most associated with death rate are life expectancy and its slowdown, public health context (metabolic and non-communicable diseases (NCD) burden vs. infectious diseases prevalence), economy (growth national product, financial support), and environment (temperature, ultra-violet index). Stringency of the measures settled to fight pandemia, including lockdown, did not appear to be linked with death rate. Conclusion: Countries that already experienced a stagnation or regression of life expectancy, with high income and NCD rates, had the highest price to pay. This burden was not alleviated by more stringent public decisions. Inherent factors have predetermined the Covid-19 mortality: understanding them may improve prevention strategies by increasing population resilience through better physical fitness and immunity.
35233780 REFERENCES In many countries, the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in sudden changes to the delivery of health professions education in response to local and national lockdowns. Within occupational therapy, university education programs traditionally delivered in face-to-face classroom, and clinical settings, the transition to online learning presented unique issues and challenges for faculty and students. This study compared the experiences and perceptions of learning in two groups of occupational therapy students during the pandemic: one group converted to online learning only and the other had a blended approach that combined face-to-face on-campus learning with some online lecture content delivery. Two hundred and eight (n = 208) undergraduate occupational therapy students from three Australian universities completed an online self-report demographic questionnaire and two standardised instruments: the Student Engagement in the e-Learning Environment Scale and the Distance Education Learning Environment Scale. An independent-samples t test with bootstrapping was completed to examine differences in students' scores. Statistically significant differences were observed between the online and blended learning groups across a range of the SELES and DELES subscales. The strongest findings related to psychological motivation (p = 0.001), personal relevance (p = 0.001), interactions with instructors (p = 0.002), instructor support (p = 0.001), student interaction & collaboration (p = 0.001), and cognitive problem solving (p = 0.001). Occupational therapy students who transitioned to online-only learning experienced higher levels of motivation, interactions with instructors and peers, and self-directed learning than students who experienced a blended education delivery approach of face-to-face and online learning. The findings extend educators' understanding of the matrix of factors that have impacted students' education during COVID-19 and support the development of contemporary and pedagogically sound online and traditional modes of occupational therapy instruction. The results provide evidence of the importance of well-structured programs that facilitate active and flexible learning, provide meaningful and positive experiences, and promote initiatives safeguarding social and personal well-being. Further research in this area is recommended.
34013051 References 
32252855 References 
34782790 Author contributions Data availability Code availability Competing interests References Although critical for host defense, innate immune cells are also pathologic drivers of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Innate immune dynamics during Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) ARDS, compared to ARDS from other respiratory pathogens, is unclear. Moreover, mechanisms underlying the beneficial effects of dexamethasone during severe COVID-19 remain elusive. Using single-cell RNA sequencing and plasma proteomics, we discovered that, compared to bacterial ARDS, COVID-19 was associated with expansion of distinct neutrophil states characterized by interferon (IFN) and prostaglandin signaling. Dexamethasone during severe COVID-19 affected circulating neutrophils, altered IFNactive neutrophils, downregulated interferon-stimulated genes and activated IL-1R2+ neutrophils. Dexamethasone also expanded immunosuppressive immature neutrophils and remodeled cellular interactions by changing neutrophils from information receivers into information providers. Male patients had higher proportions of IFNactive neutrophils and preferential steroid-induced immature neutrophil expansion, potentially affecting outcomes. Our single-cell atlas (see 'Data availability' section) defines COVID-19-enriched neutrophil states and molecular mechanisms of dexamethasone action to develop targeted immunotherapies for severe COVID-19. New results shed light on the molecular mechanisms of dexamethasone action, underlying its therapeutic benefit in patients with severe COVID-19.
32580924 References 
32776354  COVID-19, the illness caused by SARS-CoV-2, has a wide-ranging clinical spectrum that, in the worst-case scenario, involves a rapid progression to severe acute respiratory syndrome and even death. Epidemiological data show that obesity and diabetes are among the main risk factors associated with high morbidity and mortality. The increased susceptibility to SARS-CoV-2 infection documented in obesity-related metabolic derangements argues for initial defects in defense mechanisms, most likely due to an elevated systemic metabolic inflammation ("metaflammation"). The NLRP3 inflammasome is a master regulator of metaflammation and has a pivotal role in the pathophysiology of either obesity and diabetes. Here, we discuss the most recent findings suggesting contribution of NLRP3 inflammasome to the increase in complications in COVID-19 patients with diabesity. We also review current pharmacological strategies for COVID-19, focusing on treatments whose efficacy could be due, at least in part, to interference with the activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome.
33461841 References Healthcare workers (HCWs) are at the frontline during the pandemic of COVID-19 globally. According to the WHO situation report at April 17, there were 22, 073 HCWs contracted the infection. Whether the infection control policy and practice in the hospital setting can protect the HCWs is an important issue. We performed a cross-sectional serology study in a tertiary care hospital in Taiwan to explore the sero-prevalence rate among HCWs. The participants are enrolled on a voluntary basis. A structured questionnaire was collected to gather the epidemiology character and risk factors for potential exposure. ELISA tests as Architect SARS-CoV-2 IgG (Abbott) and Elecsys Anti-SARS-CoV-2 assay (Roche) were used to detect antibody responses. If any of the tests was positive, a western blot assay was used for confirmation. There were 194 HCWs participated during July 1 to Aug. 31, 2020. The mean age was 36.3 +- 10.4. More than half of the participants had possible hospital associated risk for COVID-19 exposure (110/192, 57.3%) and 64 had possible community risk for COVID-19 exposure (64/194, 33.0%). There was only one participant had positive test by Architect IgG test and confirmed to be negative for seasonal coronavirus and SARS-CoV-2 antibody. (Mikrogen Diagnostik, Germany). The cross-sectional serology study in a tertiary care hospital in Taiwan revealed no HCWs had positive serology response to SARS-CoV-2. We believe that the infection control policy and practice in the hospital and in the community are both important to prevent the disease transmission.
34256781 Abbreviations Authors' contributions Funding Availability of data and materials Declarations Ethics approval and consent to participate Consent for publication Competing interests References The aim of this retrospective comparative study was to assess the impact of COVID-19 and delayed emergency department access on emergency surgery outcomes, by comparing the main clinical outcomes in the period March-May 2019 (group 1) with the same period during the national COVID-19 lockdown in Italy (March-May 2020, group 2). A comparison (groups 1 versus 2) and subgroup analysis were performed between patients' demographic, medical history, surgical, clinical and management characteristics. Two-hundred forty-six patients were included, 137 in group 1 and 109 in group 2 (p = 0.03). No significant differences were observed in the peri-operative characteristics of the two groups. A declared delay in access to hospital and preoperative SARS-CoV-2 infection rates were 15.5% and 5.8%, respectively in group 2. The overall morbidity (OR = 2.22, 95% CI 1.08-4.55, p = 0.03) and 30-day mortality (OR = 1.34, 95% CI 0.33-5.50, =0.68) were significantly higher in group 2. The delayed access cohort showed a close correlation with increased morbidity (OR = 3.19, 95% CI 0.89-11.44, p = 0.07), blood transfusion (OR = 5.13, 95% CI 1.05-25.15, p = 0.04) and 30-day mortality risk (OR = 8.00, 95% CI 1.01-63.23, p = 0.05). SARS-CoV-2-positive patients had higher risk of blood transfusion (20% vs 7.8%, p = 0.37) and ICU admissions (20% vs 2.6%, p = 0.17) and a longer median LOS (9 days vs 4 days, p = 0.11). This article provides enhanced understanding of the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on patient access to emergency surgical care. Our findings suggest that COVID-19 changed the quality of surgical care with poorer prognosis and higher morbidity rates. Delayed emergency department access and a "filter effect" induced by a fear of COVID-19 infection in the population resulted in only the most severe cases reaching the emergency department in time.
32780757 Reference 
34281994 References Our goal was to gain insights into the user reviews of the three COVID-19 contact-tracing mobile apps, developed for the different regions of the UK: 'NHS COVID-19' for England and Wales, 'StopCOVID NI' for Northern Ireland and 'Protect Scotland' for Scotland. Our two research questions are (1) what are the users' experience and satisfaction levels with the three apps? and (2) what are the main issues (problems) that users have reported about the apps? We assess the popularity of the apps and end users' perceptions based on user reviews in app stores. We conduct three types of analysis (data mining, sentiment analysis and topic modelling) to derive insights from the combined set of 25 583 user reviews of the aforementioned three apps (submitted by users until the end of 2020). Results show that end users have been generally dissatisfied with the apps under study, except the Scottish app. Some of the major issues that users have reported are high battery drainage and doubts on whether apps are really working. Towards the end of 2020, the much-awaited COVID-19 vaccines started to be available, but still, analysing the users' feedback and technical issues of these apps, in retrospective, is valuable to learn the right lessons to be ready for similar circumstances in future. Our results show that more work is needed by the stakeholders behind the apps (eg, apps' software engineering teams, public-health experts and decision makers) to improve the software quality and, as a result, the public adoption of these apps. For example, they should be designed to be as simple as possible to operate (need for usability).
34101494 References 
32840829 References Informed by evidence from past studies and experiences with epidemics, an intervention combining quarantine, lockdowns, curfews, social distancing, and washing of hands has been adopted as "international best practice" in COVID-19 response. With massive total lockdowns complemented by electronic surveillance, China successfully controlled the pandemic in country within a few months. But would this work for Africa and other communalistic resource-poor settings where social togetherness translates to effective sharing of basic needs? What ethical and practical challenges would this pose? How would communalism be translated in special contexts to be useful in contributing to the ultimate common good? This paper uses examples from the current situation of COVID-19 in Kenya to address these questions.
34077572 References 
34975646 References Given the current pandemic context generated by COVID 19, important changes in the way specific subjects to music education are taught emerged, affecting not only the particularities of learning and teaching in individual courses, but also the other courses regarding group learning or theoretical subjects. In this time, emergency remote teaching and learning requires cross-collaboration between instructional, content, and technological teams. Our research examines the students' attitudes toward online education, also presenting proposals for optimization and efficiency. The research was undertaken after an experience of a University semester in a lockdown context, and it aimed at undergraduate and master's degree students from music faculties in Romania. An important result was the mediating role of perceived utility of e-learning methods, perceived utility mediated the associations between compatibility of online methods and satisfaction toward the use of e-learning methods. The perceived compatibility of e-Learning methods with online music education led to a higher perceived utility which, in turn, predicted a higher satisfaction toward e-Learning Although this period accentuated the fear of interaction with others, the anxiety related to the unknown, the intolerance of uncertainty did not predict the satisfaction toward the use of e-learning platforms. In conclusion, more educational initiatives are needed to promote remote teaching methods in music education. In the absence of similar research in our country, we considered that future research on this topic is needed.
33177848 References Since December 2019, the novel coronavirus, severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), first spread quickly in Wuhan, China, then globally. Based on previously published evidence, ACE2 and TMPRSS2 are both pivotal entry molecules that enable cellular infection by SARS-CoV-2. Also, increased expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines, or a "cytokine storm," is associated with multiple organ dysfunction syndrome often observed in critically ill patients. We investigated the expression pattern of ACE2 and TMPRSS2 in major organs in the human body, especially in specific disease conditions. Multiple sequence alignment of ACE2 in different species was used to explain animal susceptibility. Moreover, the cell-specific expression patterns of ACE2 and cytokine receptors in the urinary tract were assessed using single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq). Additional biological relevance was determined through Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) using an ACE2-specific signature. Our results revealed that ACE2 and TMPRSS2 were highly expressed in genitourinary organs. ACE2 was highly and significantly expressed in the kidney among individuals with chronic kidney diseases or diabetic nephropathy. In single cells, ACE2 was primarily enriched in gametocytes in the testis and renal proximal tubules. The receptors for pro-inflammatory cytokines, especially IL6ST, were notably concentrated in endothelial cells, macrophages, spermatogonial stem cells in the testis, and renal endothelial cells, which suggested the occurrence of alternative damaging autoimmune mechanisms. This study provided new insights into the pathogenic mechanisms of SARS-CoV-2 that underlie the clinical manifestations observed in the human testis and kidney. These observations might substantially facilitate the development of effective treatments for this rapidly spreading disease.
32652368 References 
33754150  Social networks impact the health and well-being of older adults. Advancements in technology (e.g., digital devices and mHealth) enrich our ability to collect social networks and health data. The purpose of this scoping review was to identify and map the use of technology in measuring older adults' social networks for health and social care. Joanna Briggs Institute methodology was followed. PubMed (MEDLINE), Sociological Abstracts, SocINDEX, CINAHL, and Web of Science were searched for relevant articles. Conference abstracts and proceedings were searched via Conference Papers Index, the American Sociological Society, and The Gerontological Society of America. Studies published in English from January 2004 to March 2020 that aimed to improve health or social care for older adults and used technology to measure social networks were included. Data were extracted by two independent reviewers using an a priori extraction tool. The majority of the 18 reviewed studies were pilot or simulation research conducted in Europe that focused on older adults living in the community. The various types of technologies used can be categorized as environment-based, person-based, and data-based. Technology facilitates objective and longitudinal data collection on the social interactions and activities of older adults. The use of technology to measure older adults' social networks, however, is primarily in an exploratory phase. Multidisciplinary collaborations are needed to overcome operational, analytical, and implementation challenges. Future studies should leverage technologies for addressing social isolation and care for older adults, especially during the COVID-19 pandemic.
34568249 References The current COVID-19 pandemic demonstrates the need for urgent and on-demand solutions to provide diagnostics, treatment and preventative measures for infectious disease outbreaks. Once solutions are developed, meeting capacities depends on the ability to mitigate technical, logistical and production issues. While it is difficult to predict the next outbreak, augmenting investments in preparedness, such as infectious disease surveillance, is far more effective than mustering last-minute response funds. Bringing research outputs into practice sooner rather than later is part of an agile approach to pivot and deliver solutions. Cooperative multi- country research programs, especially those funded by global biosecurity programs, develop capacity that can be applied to infectious disease surveillance and research that enhances detection, identification, and response to emerging and re-emerging pathogens with epidemic or pandemic potential. Moreover, these programs enhance trust building among partners, which is essential because setting expectation and commitment are required for successful research and training. Measuring research outputs, evaluating outcomes and justifying continual investments are essential but not straightforward. Lessons learned include those related to reducing biological threats and maturing capabilities for national laboratory diagnostics strategy and related health systems. Challenges, such as growing networks, promoting scientific transparency, data and material sharing, sustaining funds and developing research strategies remain to be fully resolved. Here, experiences from several programs highlight successful partnerships that provide ways forward to address the next outbreak.
34665318 Author contributions Declarations Conflict of interest References COVID-19 has prompted significant policy change, with critical attention to the conservation of personal protective equipment (PPE). An extended surgical mask use policy was implemented at our institution, allowing use of one disposable mask per each individual, per day, for all the cases. We investigate the clinical impact of this policy change and its effect on the rate of 30-day surgical site infection (SSI). A single-institution retrospective review was performed for all the elective pediatric general surgery cases performed pre-COVID from August 2019 to October 2019 and under the extended mask use policy from August 2020 to October 2020. Procedure type, SSI within 30 days, and postoperative interventions were recorded. Four hundred and eighty-eight cases were reviewed: 240 in the pre-COVID-19 cohort and 248 in the extended surgical mask use cohort. Three SSIs were identified in the 2019 cohort, and two in the 2020 cohort. All postoperative infections were superficial and resolved within 1 month of diagnosis with oral antibiotics. There were no deep space infections, readmissions, or infections requiring re-operation. Extended surgical mask use was not associated with increased SSI in this series of pediatric general surgery cases and may be considered an effective and safe strategy for resource conservation with minimal clinical impact.
32429009 REFERENCES 
35170714 REFERENCES Clinical similarities among viral diseases become even more relevant considering the current scenario, especially in Brazil, where there is a high incidence of these diseases and overlapping seasonality. We report the case of a patient with acute clinical manifestations composed of predominant respiratory symptoms and alveolar hemorrhage in which three etiologies (dengue, influenza and COVID-19) were investigated concomitantly. Only the diagnosis of dengue was confirmed. Then, the patient's immunological profile in response to stimulation of mononuclear cells with dengue virus antigen was analyzed in an attempt to identify specific characteristics that could be associated with the clinical manifestation.
32541708 References 
35123395 Abbreviations Authors' contributions Funding Availability of data and materials Declarations Ethics approval and consent to participate Consent for publication Competing interests References Brazil is among the countries hit hardest by COVID-19, and older adults are among the vulnerable groups. Intergenerational coresidence and interdependence among family members, both prevalent in Brazil, likely increase social and physical contact and thus potential infection. Using nationally representative data from the COVID-19 module of the Brazilian National Household Sample Survey (Pesquisa Nacional por Amostra de Domicilios), collected between July and November of 2020, we examined the association between living arrangements and exposure to and testing for COVID-19 among 63,816 Brazilians aged 60 years and older. We examine whether living arrangements influence self-reported COVID-19 symptoms as an indicator of subjective health assessment, testing as an indicator of health care service use, and a positive COVID-19 test result as an objective indicator of exposure to the disease. Living arrangements shape older adults' vulnerabilities to COVID-19 exposure and testing. Specifically, those living alone were more likely to report having symptoms and having had a test for COVID-19. However, older adults in multigenerational and skipped generation households were more likely than solo-dwellers to test positive for COVID-19. Those with symptoms were more likely to test, regardless of their living arrangement. Among older adults without symptoms, those living alone had a higher probability of testing than those living in multigenerational or skipped-generation households. Overall, our findings suggest that coresidence with younger family members puts older adults' health at risk in the context of COVID-19. As younger Brazilians are increasingly vulnerable to COVID-19 and experiencing severe outcomes, policy makers need to be more attentive to the health needs of households that comprise older and younger cohorts, which are also more prevalent in poor and marginalized segments of the population.
34444648 Author Contributions Funding Institutional Review Board Statement Informed Consent Statement Conflicts of Interest References Food preferences are within the most important determinants of food choices; however, little is known about their complex associations, and no studies were conducted in the period of the COVID-19 pandemic. The aim of the study was to analyze the association between food preferences and food choice determinants in adolescents aged 15-20 years within the Polish Adolescents' COVID-19 Experience (PLACE-19) Study. The PLACE-19 Study included a random quota sampling conducted in the whole of Poland and covered a population-based sample of 2448 secondary school students. The food preferences were assessed using a validated Food Preference Questionnaire (FPQ), and the food choices were assessed using a validated Food Choice Questionnaire (FCQ). The statistical analysis comprised k-means clustering and linear regression adjusted for sex and age. Four homogenous clusters of respondents were defined based on the food choice motives:"healthy eaters" (health as the most important determinant of food choices), "hedonists" (convenience, sensory appeal, and price as the most important determinants), "indifferent consumers" (low significance for all determinants), and "demanding consumers" (high significance for all determinants). The preferences for all food categories differed when comparing between clusters presenting various food choice determinants (p < 0.001). The "healthy eaters" were characterized by the highest preference for vegetables; the "hedonists" preferred meat/fish, dairy, and snacks; the "demanding consumers" had a high preference for all food categories, while "indifferent consumers" had a low preference for all food categories. All preference scores were positively associated with mood, convenience, sensory appeal, natural content, and price (p < 0.05). The results confirmed the association between food preferences and food choice determinants in adolescents, as well as allowed adolescents to be clustered into segments to define various needs and motives among the identified segments. For public health purposes, it may be crucial to educate "hedonists," with a high preference for meat/fish, dairy and snacks, accompanied by convenience, sensory appeal, and price as the most important determinants of their food choices.
33058235 REFERENCES 
33400475 REFERENCES APPENDIX 1. COVID-19 Core Outcomes Set Investigators (Attending and Nonattending Contributors) for Group Authorship Supplemental Digital Content is available in the text. Respiratory failure, multiple organ failure, shortness of breath, recovery, and mortality have been identified as critically important core outcomes by more than 9300 patients, health professionals, and the public from 111 countries in the global coronavirus disease 2019 core outcome set initiative. The aim of this project was to establish the core outcome measures for these domains for trials in coronavirus disease 2019. Three online consensus workshops were convened to establish outcome measures for the four core domains of respiratory failure, multiple organ failure, shortness of breath, and recovery. International. About 130 participants (patients, public, and health professionals) from 17 countries attended the three workshops. None. Respiratory failure, assessed by the need for respiratory support based on the World Health Organization Clinical Progression Scale, was considered pragmatic, objective, and with broad applicability to various clinical scenarios. The Sequential Organ Failure Assessment was recommended for multiple organ failure, because it was routinely used in trials and clinical care, well validated, and feasible. The Modified Medical Research Council measure for shortness of breath, with minor adaptations (recall period of 24 hr to capture daily fluctuations and inclusion of activities to ensure relevance and to capture the extreme severity of shortness of breath in people with coronavirus disease 2019), was regarded as fit for purpose for this indication. The recovery measure was developed de novo and defined as the absence of symptoms, resumption of usual daily activities, and return to the previous state of health prior to the illness, using a 5-point Likert scale, and was endorsed. The coronavirus disease 2019 core outcome set recommended core outcome measures have content validity and are considered the most feasible and acceptable among existing measures. Implementation of the core outcome measures in trials in coronavirus disease 2019 will ensure consistency and relevance of the evidence to inform decision-making and care of patients with coronavirus disease 2019.
34758422 References There are few published empirical data on the effects of COVID-19 on mental health, and until now, there is no large international study. During the COVID-19 pandemic, an online questionnaire gathered data from 55,589 participants from 40 countries (64.85% females aged 35.80 +- 13.61; 34.05% males aged 34.90+-13.29 and 1.10% other aged 31.64+-13.15). Distress and probable depression were identified with the use of a previously developed cut-off and algorithm respectively. Descriptive statistics were calculated. Chi-square tests, multiple forward stepwise linear regression analyses and Factorial Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) tested relations among variables. Probable depression was detected in 17.80% and distress in 16.71%. A significant percentage reported a deterioration in mental state, family dynamics and everyday lifestyle. Persons with a history of mental disorders had higher rates of current depression (31.82% vs. 13.07%). At least half of participants were accepting (at least to a moderate degree) a non-bizarre conspiracy. The highest Relative Risk (RR) to develop depression was associated with history of Bipolar disorder and self-harm/attempts (RR = 5.88). Suicidality was not increased in persons without a history of any mental disorder. Based on these results a model was developed. The final model revealed multiple vulnerabilities and an interplay leading from simple anxiety to probable depression and suicidality through distress. This could be of practical utility since many of these factors are modifiable. Future research and interventions should specifically focus on them.
35291048 REFERENCES Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, National Taiwan University anatomy teachers adopted asynchronous online video teaching and reduced the size of anatomy laboratory groups in April 2020. The aim of this study was to investigate the impact of these changes on medical students' learning. Before Covid-19, the performance of the 2019-2020 cohort was significantly better than that of the 2018-2019 cohort. However, the implementation of modified teaching strategies significantly lowered the laboratory midterm score of the 2019-2020 cohort in the second semester. Conversely, the final laboratory examination score of the 2019-2020 cohort was significantly higher than that of the 2018-2019 cohort. Through correlation analysis, lecture and laboratory examination scores were highly correlated. Additionally, the difference in lecture and laboratory z-scores between two cohorts, the Likert scale survey and free-text feedback of the 2019-2020 cohort, were conducted to show the impact of modified teaching strategies. There were several important findings in this study. First, the change in teaching strategies may temporarily negatively influence medical students to learn anatomy. Besides, analyzing the performance of laboratory assessments could be a complementary strategy to evaluate online assessments. Applying lecture examination scores to predict laboratory performance was a feasible way to identify students who may have difficulty in learning practical dissection. Finally, reducing group size together with reduced peer discussion may have a negative effect on learning cadaver dissection for students with low academic performance. These findings should be taken into consideration when anatomy teachers apply new teaching strategies in anatomy courses.
34393592 REFERENCES In modern democracies, large societal crises like the COVID-19 pandemic are accompanied by intensified public discourse about which policies and strategies are adequate to fight the crisis. In such times, the public sphere switches to crisis mode with fundamentally different communicative dynamics compared to routinised periods. Data from social media platforms like Twitter offers new possibilities to study such dynamics. However, comprehensive studies on how crises affect discourse in distinct national publics are missing up to now. Based on 1,762,262 tweets referring to COVID-19 written between 1 January and 30 April 2020 by 56,418 validated Swiss users, we illustrate how the lockdown of public life in Switzerland affected the discourse in the Swiss Twitter-sphere. Based on public sphere theories, we identify four crisis-related dimensions for our analysis. We show that the pandemic led to a narrowing of the topic agenda and to a more inwardly oriented public sphere with increased Twitter activity by experts. Furthermore, actors from the social periphery were able to reach the centre of public discourse with their tweets. Overall our study shows how methodological innovation allows us to better connect an empirical analysis with the concept of a public sphere as a communication network.
32222253 References 
35149232  The development of SARS-CoV-2 vaccines represents a significant breakthrough for managing the COVID-19 pandemic, however their approval process has exposed a crucial limitation in clinical trial reports:that is, a disregard for sex differences in response to vaccines. Historically, males and females have shown different reactions to vaccines of many kinds, which have become apparent with the arrival of COVID-19 vaccines in late-2020. In this article, we review both regulatory data from Phase III vaccine trials as well as peer-reviewed reports from vaccines administered to the general population, many of which failed to stratify results by sex. We also discuss the exclusion of pregnant and lactating women in drug development and the regulatory guidelines for use of COVID-19 vaccines in such populations. We conclude by proposing some questions to stimulate discussion with the intent to advance the field toward one of precision medicine.
34864190 References Given the safety concerns during the COVID-19 (coronavirus disease 2019) pandemic, residency programs suspended away rotations in 2021, and the interview process was transitioned to a virtual video format. In the present study, we assessed the extent to which these changes had affected match outcomes and whether medical school ranking, international graduate status, or affiliation with a home neurosurgery program had affected these outcomes. A cross-sectional analysis of neurosurgery match data from 2016 to 2021 was performed, and the match outcomes were assessed by matched program geography and program research ranking. chi2 tests were performed to identify significant differences between the 2021 and 2016-2020 match results. A total of 1324 confirmed matched neurosurgery residents were identified from 2016 to 2021 (2016-2020, n = 1113; 2021, n = 211). No statistically significant differences were found in the rates of matching at a home program, within state, or within region between 2021 and 2016-2020 in the overall cohort. The proportions of international graduates and students without home programs among the matched applicants were unchanged in 2021. In 2021, students from the top 25 medical schools were less likely to match within their state or region (P < 0.05). Our findings might reflect enhanced weighting given by programs to applicants from top medical schools in the absence of data from in-person rotations and interviews. These findings, coupled with the potential benefits of an increasingly virtual application process in improving equity and diversity among candidates from underrepresented communities, should be considered when determining permanent modifications to future residency application cycles.
33883315 References To examine the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, we interviewed 26 patients with lysosomal storage disorders receiving enzyme replacement therapy. 20 (77 %) had significant interruption in their treatment, with an average of 8 (range 2-28) missed doses. Alternate methods of delivering uninterrupted care including home therapy were used. Vulnerable patients with chronic genetic disorders require organization for their multidisciplinary needs of care.
33503002 Appendix Abbreviations Transition to digital pathology usually takes months or years to be completed. We were familiarizing ourselves with digital pathology solutions at the time when the COVID-19 outbreak forced us to embark on an abrupt transition to digital pathology. The aim of this study was to quantitatively describe how the abrupt transition to digital pathology might affect the quality of diagnoses, model possible causes by probabilistic modeling, and qualitatively gauge the perception of this abrupt transition. A total of 17 pathologists and residents participated in this study; these participants reviewed 25 additional test cases from the archives and completed a final psychologic survey. For each case, participants performed several different diagnostic tasks, and their results were recorded and compared with the original diagnoses performed using the gold standard method (ie, conventional microscopy). We performed Bayesian data analysis with probabilistic modeling. The overall analysis, comprising 1345 different items, resulted in a 9% (117/1345) error rate in using digital slides. The task of differentiating a neoplastic process from a nonneoplastic one accounted for an error rate of 10.7% (42/392), whereas the distinction of a malignant process from a benign one accounted for an error rate of 4.2% (11/258). Apart from residents, senior pathologists generated most discrepancies (7.9%, 13/164). Our model showed that these differences among career levels persisted even after adjusting for other factors. Our findings are in line with previous findings, emphasizing that the duration of transition (ie, lengthy or abrupt) might not influence the diagnostic performance. Moreover, our findings highlight that senior pathologists may be limited by a digital gap, which may negatively affect their performance with digital pathology. These results can guide the process of digital transition in the field of pathology.
32578210 References 
35453906 Author Contributions Funding Institutional Review Board Statement Informed Consent Statement Data Availability Statement Conflicts of Interest References The purpose of this study was to investigate whether routine blood tests and clinical characteristics can predict in-hospital mortality in COVID-19. Clinical data of 285 patients aged 59.7 +- 10.3 yrs. (males n = 189, females n = 96) were retrospectively collected from December 2020 to June 2021. Routine blood tests were recorded within the 1st hour of admission to hospital. The inflammatory variables, such as C-reactive protein (CRP), procalcitonin (PCT), neutrophils-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) and the systemic inflammatory index (SII), exceeded the reference values in all patients and were significantly higher in deceased patients (n = 108) compared to survivors (n = 177). The log-rank test for comparing two survival curves showed that patients aged >=60.5 years, with PCT >= 0.188 ng/mL or NLR >= 11.57 103/microL were at a greater risk of death. NLR demonstrated a high impact on the COVID-19 mortality (HR 1.317; 95%CI 1.004-1.728; p < 0.05), whereas CRP and SII showed no effect (HR 1.000; 95%CI 1.000-1.004; p = 0.085 and HR 1.078; 95%CI 0.865-1.344; p = 0.503, respectively). In the first Polish study including COVID-19 patients, we demonstrated that age in relation to simple parameters derived from complete blood cell count has prognostic implications in the course of COVID-19 and can identify the patients at a higher risk of in-hospital mortality.
35124470 References 
34714362 Author contributions Funding Availability of data and materials Code availability Declarations Conflict of interest Ethical approval Consent to participate Consent for publication References The COVID-19 pandemic caused by SARS-CoV-2 requires new treatments both to alleviate the symptoms and to prevent the spread of this disease. Previous studies demonstrated good antiviral and virucidal activity of phospholipase A2s (PLA2s) from snake venoms against viruses from different families but there was no data for coronaviruses. Here we show that PLA2s from snake venoms protect Vero E6 cells against SARS-CoV-2 cytopathic effects. PLA2s showed low cytotoxicity to Vero E6 cells with some activity at micromolar concentrations, but strong antiviral activity at nanomolar concentrations. Dimeric PLA2 from the viper Vipera nikolskii and its subunits manifested especially potent virucidal effects, which were related to their phospholipolytic activity, and inhibited cell-cell fusion mediated by the SARS-CoV-2 spike glycoprotein. Moreover, PLA2s interfered with binding both of an antibody against ACE2 and of the receptor-binding domain of the glycoprotein S to 293T/ACE2 cells. This is the first demonstration of a detrimental effect of PLA2s on beta-coronaviruses. Thus, snake PLA2s are promising for the development of antiviral drugs that target the viral envelope, and could also prove to be useful tools to study the interaction of viruses with host cells. The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s00018-021-03985-6.
35578330 Abbreviations Authors' contributions Funding Availability of data and materials Declarations Ethics approval and consent to participate Consent for publication Competing interests References The COVID-19 pandemic had a colossal impact on human society globally. There were similarities and differences in the public health and social measures taken by countries, and comparative analysis facilitates cross-country learning of contextual practices and sharing lessons to mitigate the COVID-19 pandemic impact. Our aim is to conduct a situational analysis of the public health and social measures to mitigate the health and economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in Turkey, Egypt, Ukraine, Kazakhstan, and Poland during 2020-2021. We conducted a situational analysis of the COVID-19 pandemic response in Turkey, Egypt, Ukraine, Kazakhstan, and Poland from the perspectives of the health system and health finance, national coordination, surveillance, testing capacity, health infrastructure, healthcare workforce, medical supply, physical distancing and non-pharmaceutical interventions, health communication, impact on non-COVID-19 health services, impact on the economy, education, gender and civil liberties, and COVID-19 vaccination. Since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, Turkey, Egypt, Ukraine, Kazakhstan, and Poland have expanded COVID-19 testing and treatment capacity over time. However, they faced a shortage of healthcare workforce and medical supplies. They took population-based quarantine measures rather than individual-based isolation measures, which significantly burdened their economies and disrupted education. The unemployment rate increased, and economic growth stagnated. Economic stimulus policy was accompanied by high inflation. Despite the effort to sustain essential health services, healthcare access declined. Schools were closed for 5-11 months. Gender inequality was aggravated in Turkey and Ukraine, and an issue was raised for balancing public health measures and civil liberties in Egypt and Poland. Digital technologies played an important role in maintaining routine healthcare, education, and public health communication. The COVID-19 pandemic has exposed weaknesses in healthcare systems in the emerging economies of Turkey, Egypt, Ukraine, Kazakhstan, and Poland, and highlighted the intricate link between health and economy. Individual-level testing, isolation, and contact tracing are effective public health interventions in mitigating the health and economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in comparison to population-level measures of lockdowns. Smart investments in public health, including digital health and linking health security with sustainable development, are key for economic gain, social stability, and more equitable and sustainable development.
34017205 References After a year of the COVID-19 pandemic, countries have repeatedly imposed strict quarantine regimes as the virus mutates and becomes more contagious. Medical undergraduate education has been disrupted and transformed into prolonged home isolation and online learning. Although studies have reported that the COVID-19 pandemic tends to increase perceived stress (PS) and affect the mental health of medical students, the influencing factors are unclear. Therefore, based on the stress process model, this study will comprehensively evaluate the distribution of stressors of medical students and explore the personal and environmental predictors of PS during the epidemic. An online survey was conducted among medical students (n=369) from three medical universities in western China who engaged in online learning. A stress process conceptual framework was formed to explore the influencing factors of PS. The survey items contained four sections: (a) the potential stressors derived from academic, psychosocial and health-related demands; coping resources such as (b) online learning environment support and (c) personal resilience, including online learning behavior and individual characteristics; and (d) PS, perception of imbalanced demands and coping resources. The mean PS score was 17.39 (SD=4.58), and over four-fifths (82.3%) of the students had moderate to high levels of stress. The average item scores of academic, psychosocial and health-related stressors were 2.72 (SD=0.55), 2.31 (SD=0.55) and 2.07 (SD=0.50), respectively. Gender, grade, psychosocial stressors, health-related stressors, specific online learning behavior (persistence, attitude and flexibility), and the online learning environment (teaching, social and cognitive presence) were predictors of PS. Our results specify that a reduction in psychological and health-related stressor stimulation, specific online learning behavior promotion, and well-established online learning environment support could be considered essential for alleviating the negative impacts of COVID-19 on the psychosocial health of medical undergraduates.
32589348 REFERENCES Acute stroke patients may have undiagnosed coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) infection, transmissible to medical professionals involved in their care. Our aim was to determine the value of incorporating a chest computed tomography (CT) scan during acute stroke imaging, and the factors that influence this decision. We constructed a probabilistic decision tree of the value of acquiring a chest CT scan or not, expressed in quality-adjusted life months (QALM) of patients and medical professionals. The model was based on the chance of detecting infection by chest CT scan, the case fatality rates of COVID-19 infection, the risk of COVID-19 infection after exposure, the expected proportion of medical professionals exposed, and the exposure reduction derived from early disease detection. The decision to incorporate the chest CT scan was superior to not doing so (12.00 QALM vs 11.99 QALM, respectively), when the probability of patients having undetected COVID-19 infection is 3.5%, potentially exposing 100% of medical professionals, and if early detection reduces exposure by 50%. The risk of developing symptomatic COVID-19 infection following exposure casts uncertainty on the results, but this is offset by the potential for reducing exposure. We identified a measurable benefit of incorporating a chest CT into the urgent imaging protocol of acute stroke patients in reducing exposure of medical professionals without appropriate precautions. The clinical impact of this benefit, however, may not be materially significant.
34142877 REFERENCES The College of Science and Health Professions offers a university preprofessional program. Like most medical schools in Saudi Arabia, the teaching delivery strategy in the university preprofessional program is on campus and face-to-face. During the month of March 2020, teaching activities of the spring semester were proceeding as normal; however, the sudden emergence of COVID-19 disturbed routine activities and compelled authorities to switch all teaching activities from face-to-face to online. Training sessions and workshops for all stakeholders on online delivery methods were arranged. Blackboard and other online facilities were utilized. All teaching materials, including newly made video clips for anatomy and physiology practicals, were uploaded on Blackboard and discussed online with students. Students' anxiety related to the exam was reassured by giving them the option of open book quizzes during summative continuous assessment. All scheduled teaching sessions, lectures, and practicals were conducted proficiently. Revision sessions and assessment quizzes were conducted with students' satisfaction. At the end of the semester, a final exam was conducted online as an open book exam. Students with technical issues while attempting the exam were given an opportunity to make up for it. After a successful final exam, the cumulative block grades showed students secured higher grades in the open book exam. Following that, the King Saud bin Abdulaziz University for Health Sciences has managed to conduct on-campus close book exams that abide by self-distancing and standard operating procedure policies.
34795818  Proteinuria is a marker of severity and poor outcome of patients in intensive care unit (ICU). The objective of this study was to determine the frequency of proteinuria and the risk factors associated with proteinuria in Congolese COVID-19 patients. The present cross sectional study of proteinuria status is a post hoc analysis of data from 80 COVID-19 patients admitted at Kinshasa Medical Center (KMC) from March 10th to July 10th, 2020. The population under study came from all adult inpatients (>=18 years old) with a laboratory diagnosis by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) of COVID-19 were selected and divided into two groups (positive proteinuria and negative proteinuria group). Logistic regression models helped to identify the factors associated with proteinuria. The P value significance level was 0.05. Among 80 patients who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 RT-PCR, 55% had proteinuria. The mean age was 55.2 +- 12.8 years. Fourty-seven patients (58.8%) had history of hypertension and 26 patients (32.5%) diabetes. Multivariable analysis showed age >= 65 years (aOR 5,04; 95% CI: 1.51-16.78), diabetes (aOR 3,15; 95% CI: 1.14-8.72), ASAT >40 UI/L (aOR 7,08; 95% CI: 2.40-20.87), ferritin >300 (aOR 13,47; 95% CI: 1.56-26.25) as factors independently associated with proteinuria in COVID-19 patients. Proteinuria is common in Congolese COVID-19 patients and is associated with age, diabetes, ferritin and aspartate aminotransferase (ASAT).
35272613 Abbreviations Authors' contributions Funding Availability of data and materials Declarations Ethics approval and consent to participate Consent for publication Competing interests References We aimed to find the association between gastrointestinal (GI) and respiratory symptoms with mortality and hospitalization among COVID-19 patients. We analyzed the registered data of COVID-19 patients from February 20, 2020, to March 10, 2021. Depending on the patients' disease symptoms, four categories were defined: patients with only GI symptoms, patients with only respiratory symptoms, patients with both symptoms, and patients with other symptoms. Logistic regression analysis was used to assess the association of groups with outcomes. A total of 42,964 patients from 23 hospitals were included, of which 26.5% patients had at least one or more GI symptoms. Of total patients, 51.58% patients were hospitalized among which 22.8% had at least one or more GI symptoms. GI symptoms significantly decreased the odds of mortality (OR 0.72, 95% CI 0.56-0.92), but respiratory symptoms increased the odds for mortality (1.36: 1.24-1.50), compared with patients with other symptoms. Moreover, the odds ratio of patients who had both respiratory and GI symptoms increased (1.52: 1.31-1.78) compared with patients with other symptoms. The same results were observed for hospitalization as the outcome. Our study showed that the presence of GI symptoms in COVID-19 at the time of admission was associated with a lower odds of hospitalization and mortality; however, this association had higher odds for respiratory symptoms.
33190222 REFERENCES Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a syndrome of reduced glomerular filtration rate and/or reduced urine flow associated with mortality in corona virus disease 2019 (COVID-19). AKI is often associated with renal tissue damage, which may lead to chronic kidney disease. Biomarkers of tissue damage may identify patients of particular risk. In a prospective observational study of 57 patients admitted to intensive care, AKI incidence and characteristics was evaluated according to KDIGO criteria and related to days after admission. Urinary albumin, Neutrophil Gelatinase-Associated Lipocalin (NGAL), Kidney Injury Molecule 1 (KIM-1) and Plasma Tissue Inhibitor of MetalloProteinase 2 (TIMP-2) were analysed in 52 patients at admission. The majority (n = 51, 89%) of patients developed AKI, and 27 (47%) patients had predominantly oliguric AKI where oliguria was more severe than plasma Creatinine increase. Severe oliguria within first 2 days after admission was common (n = 37, 65%), whereas stage 2 and 3 AKI due to Creatinine occurred later than day 2 in 67% (12/18) of cases. Renal replacement therapy was started in 9 (16%) patients, and 30-day mortality was 28%. Urinary biomarkers were increased in a majority of patients, but did not robustly predict KDIGO stage. Most patients had microalbuminuria, and severe albuminuria (albumin Creatinine ratio > 30 mg/mmol) was found in n = 9 (17%) patients. A majority of patients with COVID-19 admitted to the ICU develop AKI. The functional deficit is often low urinary volume, and initial levels of biomarkers are generally increased without clear relation to final AKI stage.
32997560 References Since being first detected in China, coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has spread rapidly across the world, triggering a global pandemic with no viable cure in sight. As a result, national responses have focused on the effective minimization of the spread. Border control measures and travel restrictions have been implemented in a number of countries to limit the import and export of the virus. The detection of COVID-19 is a key task for physicians. The erroneous results of early laboratory tests and their delays led researchers to focus on different options. Information obtained from computed tomography (CT) and radiological images is important for clinical diagnosis. Therefore, it is worth developing a rapid method of detection of viral diseases through the analysis of radiographic images. We propose a novel method of detection of COVID-19. The purpose is to provide clinical decision support to healthcare workers and researchers. The article is to support researchers working on early detection of COVID-19 as well as similar viral diseases.
35421155 References Decision Letter 0 Author response to Decision Letter 0 Decision Letter 1 Acceptance letter The novel coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has emerged as a global pandemic, and the United States and European authorities established criteria for the release of COVID-19 patients from isolation in October 2020. However, a huge discrepancy exists between the hospital-discharge protocol for COVID-19 patients and the release of patients from in-hospital isolation. Our initially proposed criteria for in-hospital release from isolation was not adhered to by healthcare workers (HCWs) due to prevailing concerns regarding disease infectivity. Herein, we report difficulties encountered in attempting to establish a common understanding of the management of emerging infections. We performed a Google Form-based questionnaire survey targeting HCWs from Okayama University Hospital, Japan, via e-mail on January 21-28, 2021. The anonymous investigation required respondents to provide information regarding their background as well as perceptions regarding the requirement, level of understanding, and readiness for developing release criteria. We obtained 150 eligible responses, including 57 (38.0%) from medical doctors and 53 (35.3%) from nurses. Most HCWs managing COVID-19 patients advocated for the implementation of the criteria, whereas those not working in that capacity did not (p<0.001). Over half of the HCWs indicated discomfort at seeing COVID-19 patients transitioning to general management even after meeting the criteria. It was challenging to establish a common understanding regarding the ideal criteria for in-hospital release of COVID-19 patients from isolation in our hospital. The dissemination of our experiences and multifaceted discussions with HCWs would be of great value as a countermeasure against the emergent pandemic.
33224626 References UpToDate is a point-of-care clinical resource used by nearly 2 million clinicians worldwide. Users in the USA and other regions can obtain continuing education credits after researching clinical questions at the point-of-care. As part of the CME credit redemption process, participants provide feedback on the information researched during the UpToDate learning activity. We examined the impact of UpToDate searches on clinical decision-making related to COVID-19. Between January 1 and 31 August 2020, UpToDate added more than 40 topic reviews on various aspects of COVID-19 diagnosis and management, and developed new methods for delivering COVID-19 content to our learners. During the observation period, participants accessed COVID-19-related topic reviews over 7.5 million times. Data collected from CME activity evaluations and user feedback suggested that the learning activity had a significant impact on clinical decision-making. Over 94% reported that they modified their management strategies as a result of using UpToDate , and 97% reported that use of UpToDate led to improvement in care. These findings support the benefit of self-directed, point-of-care learning activities on the clinical management of patients during a global pandemic.
32945597 References To assess the effects of social distancing and social isolation policies triggered by COVID-19 on alcohol consumption using wastewater analysis in Adelaide, South Australia. Longitudinal quantitative analysis of influent wastewater data for alcohol concentration. Adelaide, South Australia. Wastewater catchment area representative of 1.1 million inhabitants. Twenty-four hour composite influent wastewater samples were collected from four wastewater treatment plants in Adelaide, South Australia for 7 consecutive days (Wednesday-Tuesday) every 2 months from April 2016-April 2020. The alcohol metabolite ethyl sulfate was measured in samples using chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Data were population-weighted adjusted with consumption expressed as standard drinks/day/1000 people. Weekly consumption and weekend to mid-week consumption ratios were analysed to identify changes in weekday alcohol use pattern. Estimated weekend alcohol consumption was significantly lower (698 standard drinks/day/1000 people) after self-isolation measures were enforced in April 2020 compared with the preceding sampling period in February 2020 (1047 standard drinks/day/1000 people), P < 0.05. Weekend to midweek consumption ratio was 12% lower than the average ratio compared with all previous sampling periods. April 2020 recorded the lowest alcohol consumption relative to April in previous years, dating back to 2016. Wastewater analysis suggests that introduction of social distancing and isolation policies triggered by COVID-19 in Adelaide, South Australia, was associated with a decrease in population-level weekend alcohol consumption.
32988978 References 
34207721 Author Contributions Funding Institutional Review Board Statement Informed Consent Statement Conflicts of Interest Appendix A. Questionnaire for Residents' Daily Status during the Lockdown Appendix B. Interview for Community Organisations during Lockdown References This study aims to examine the impacts of community gardening on the daily life of residents and the management organisation of pandemic prevention in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic, a major public health scourge in 2020. The research team applied a participatory action research approach to work with residents to design and implement the Seeding Plan, a contactless community gardening program. The authors carried out a study to compare the everyday conditions reflecting residents' mental health of the three subject groups during the pandemic: the participants of the Seeding Plan (Group A), the non-participants living in the same communities that had implemented the Seeding Plan (Group B), and the non-participants in other communities (Group C). According to the results, group A showed the best mental health among the three; Group B, positively influenced by seeding activities, was better than Group C. The interview results also confirmed that the community connections established through gardening activities have a significant impact on maintaining a positive social mentality under extraordinary circumstances. From this, the study concluded that gardening activities can improve people's mental health, effectively resist negative impacts, and it is a convenient tool with spreading influence on the entire community, so as to support the collective response to public health emergencies in a bottom-up direction by the community.
34769806 Author Contributions Funding Institutional Review Board Statement Informed Consent Statement Data Availability Statement Conflicts of Interest References Despite its severe adverse effects, such as agranulocytosis, clozapine is the primary treatment for treatment-resistant schizophrenia. The established clozapine monitoring system has contributed to reducing agranulocytosis incidence and mortality rates. However, the pandemic coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has caused changes in the monitoring system. This review aimed to assess the current evidence on the neutrophil changes in the patient on clozapine treatment and infected with COVID-19. Individual cases reported various absolute neutrophil count (ANC) levels, normal, reduced, or elevated. No agranulocytosis case was reported. One case had a borderline moderate-severe ANC level, but the patient was in the 18-week period of clozapine treatment. A cumulative analysis of case the series initially reported inconclusive results. However, a more recent study with a larger sample size reported a significant reduction in the ANC during COVID-19 infection. Nevertheless, this effect is transient as no significant difference was found between the baseline and the post-infection period in ANC levels. In conclusion, COVID-19 is associated with a temporary reduction in ANC levels. The results supported the recommendation to reduce the frequency of clozapine monitoring in the eligible candidates. However, more data are required to confirm the current findings given the limitations, including study design, sample size, and statistical analysis.
34908708 REFERENCES COVID-19 has been a considerable major stress factor and has led to a great increase in psychological illnesses. Literature related to spirituality and philosophy can provide solace in times like these. We have taken excerpts from Bhagwad Gita which is a spiritual and philosophical scripture, existential philosopher Albert Camus's La Peste and the myth of Sisyphus and writings of the philosopher Immanule Kant. These literary masterpieces can provide a wealth of guidance and solace to both the medical fraternity and affected people and their caregivers. "We tell ourselves that pestilence is a mere bogy of the mind, a bad dream that will pass away. But it doesn't always pass away and from one bad dream to another, it is men who pass away." -Albert Camus
34882720 References Decision Letter 0 Author response to Decision Letter 0 Decision Letter 1 Acceptance letter Healthcare and residential care workers represent two occupational groups that have, in particular, been at risk of Covid-19, its long-term consequences, and related sick leave. In this study, we investigated the predictors of prolonged sick leave among healthcare and residential workers due to non-hospitalized Covid-19 in the early period of the pandemic. This study is based on a patient register (n = 3209) and included non-hospitalized healthcare or residential care service workers with a positive RT- PCR for SARS-CoV-2 (n = 433) between March and August 2020. Data such as socio-demographics, clinical characteristics, and the length of sick leave because of Covid-19 and prior to the pandemic were extracted from the patient's electronic health records. Prolonged sick leave was defined as sick leave >= 3 weeks, based on the Swedish pandemic policy. A generalized linear model was used with a binary distribution, adjusted for age, gender, and comorbidity in order to predict prolonged sick leave. Of 433 (77% women) healthcare and residential care workers included in this study, 14.8% needed longer sick leave (> 3 weeks) due to Covid-19. Only 1.4% of the subjects were on sick leave because of long Covid. The risk of sick leave was increased two-fold among residential care workers (adjusted RR 2.14 [95% CI 1.31-3.51]). Depression/anxiety (adjusted RR 2.09 [95% CI 1.31-3.34]), obesity (adjusted RR 1.96 [95% CI 1.01-3.81]) and dyspnea at symptom onset (adjusted RR 2.47 [95% CI 1.55-3.92]), sick leave prior to the pandemic (3-12 weeks) (adjusted RR 2.23 [95% CI 1.21-4.10]) were associated with longer sick leave. From a public health perspective, considering occupational category, comorbidity, symptoms at onset, and sick leave prior to the pandemic as potential predictors of sick leave in healthcare may help prevent staff shortage.
35224217 REFERENCES Scientists and healthcare workers have expressed their concerns on the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on vaccination coverage in children and adolescents. Therefore, we aimed to systematically review the studies addressing this issue worldwide. We conducted a systematic search of relevant studies using the keywords on databases of PubMed, Web of Science, and Cochrane on May 22, 2021. The identified records were imported into EndNote software and underwent a two-phase screening process consisting of title/abstract and full-text screenings against inclusion criteria. The data of the included studies were summarized into a table and the findings were analyzed in a systematic approach. From 26 eligible studies, 21 studies demonstrated decreased vaccination rates in the children during the COVID-19 pandemic, while three studies found increased or no significant changes only in influenza vaccination. The two remaining studies from Brazil and Sweden also showed no significant changes in vaccination rates in the children during the pandemic. Most of the reports worldwide reported a decline or delay in vaccination at the time of the COVID-19 pandemic. A sustained catch-up program seems to be necessary, especially in low-income countries, to avoid any vaccine dose missing. Facilitating the vaccination process is recommended, such as decreasing the waiting time for vaccination at the health center, addressing the fear and concerns related to COVID infection for parents, and enhancing vaccine availability, and promoting access in remote areas. Countries should ensure proper vaccination to prevent future pandemics related to vaccine-preventable diseases.
32382746  We report a case series of 6 patients with confirmed COVID-19 in Wakayama prefecture, Japan. All 6 of the patients tested positive in pharyngeal swab PCR tests, and 2 of the 6 were still positive at 3 weeks after onset. All of the patients exhibited bilateral ground glass opacities (GGO) on computed tomography (CT). This paper also reports narrative information on the spectrum of symptoms collected directly from the patients. It would be difficult to triage patients with COVID-19 based on the typical symptoms of fever and/or cough, although PCR and CT are definitive in diagnosis.
34991778 References Supplementary Data Europe has experienced a large COVID-19 wave caused by the Delta variant in winter 2021/22. Using mathematical models applied to Metropolitan France, we find that boosters administered to >= 65, >= 50 or >= 18 year-olds may reduce the hospitalisation peak by 25%, 36% and 43% respectively, with a delay of 5 months between second and third dose. A 10% reduction in transmission rates might further reduce it by 41%, indicating that even small increases in protective behaviours may be critical to mitigate the wave.
32407564  Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) is rapidly spread across the world. Many clinical manifestations of the virus are described, and new symptoms are emerging, only few cases of patients with skin manifestation were described since the pandemic was announced by the WHO on March. Common clinical features of COVID-19 reported include fever, cough, myalgia, fatigue, headache, shortness of breath and diarrhea.
35128391  Inequalities are ubiquitous in every society on Earth, and the COVID-2019 pandemic has exposed the marginalized communities that suffer the most. A warming planet will only magnify this gap. On the eve of the 26th session of the Conference of the Parties to the UNFCCC, this Voices asks: how can science inform and address inequalities?
35316929  Stereotactic ablative body radiotherapy (SABR) is an effective technique comparable to surgery in terms of local control and efficacy in early stages of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and pulmonary metastasis. Several fractionation schemes have proven to be safe and effective, including the single fraction (SF) scheme. SF is an option cost-effectiveness, more convenience and comfortable for the patient and flexible in terms of its management combined with systemic treatments. The outbreak of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 pandemic has driven this not new but underutilized paradigm, recommending this option to minimize patients' visits to hospital. SF SABR already has a long experience, strong evidence and sufficient maturity to reliably evaluate outcomes in peripheral primary NSCLC and there are promising outcomes in pulmonary metastases, making it a valid treatment option; although its use in central locations, synchronous and recurrencies tumors requires more prospective safety and efficacy studies. The SABR radiobiology study, together with the combination with systemic therapies, (targeted therapies and immunotherapy) is a direction of research in both advanced disease and early stages whose future includes SF.
32533432 Funding Information Compliance with Ethical Standards Conflict of Interest References 
32820721 References Decision letter Author response We conducted voluntary Covid-19 testing programmes for symptomatic and asymptomatic staff at a UK teaching hospital using naso-/oro-pharyngeal PCR testing and immunoassays for IgG antibodies. 1128/10,034 (11.2%) staff had evidence of Covid-19 at some time. Using questionnaire data provided on potential risk-factors, staff with a confirmed household contact were at greatest risk (adjusted odds ratio [aOR] 4.82 [95%CI 3.45-6.72]). Higher rates of Covid-19 were seen in staff working in Covid-19-facing areas (22.6% vs. 8.6% elsewhere) (aOR 2.47 [1.99-3.08]). Controlling for Covid-19-facing status, risks were heterogenous across the hospital, with higher rates in acute medicine (1.52 [1.07-2.16]) and sporadic outbreaks in areas with few or no Covid-19 patients. Covid-19 intensive care unit staff were relatively protected (0.44 [0.28-0.69]), likely by a bundle of PPE-related measures. Positive results were more likely in Black (1.66 [1.25-2.21]) and Asian (1.51 [1.28-1.77]) staff, independent of role or working location, and in porters and cleaners (2.06 [1.34-3.15]).
34394024 References The presence of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has been recently demonstrated in the sputum or saliva, suggesting how the shedding of viral RNA outlasts the end of symptoms. Recent data from transcriptome analysis show that the oral cavity mucosa harbors high levels of angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) and transmembrane protease, serine 2 (TMPRSS2), highlighting its role as a double-edged sword for SARS-CoV-2 body entrance or interpersonal transmission. Here, we studied the oral microbiota structure and inflammatory profile of 26 naive severe coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) patients and 15 controls by 16S rRNA V2 automated targeted sequencing and magnetic bead-based multiplex immunoassays, respectively. A significant diminution in species richness was observed in COVID-19 patients, along with a marked difference in beta-diversity. Species such as Prevotella salivae and Veillonella infantium were distinctive for COVID-19 patients, while Neisseria perflava and Rothia mucilaginosa were predominant in controls. Interestingly, these two groups of oral species oppositely clustered within the bacterial network, defining two distinct Species Interacting Groups (SIGs). COVID-19-related pro-inflammatory cytokines were found in both oral and serum samples, along with a specific bacterial consortium able to counteract them. We introduced a new parameter, named CytoCOV, able to predict COVID-19 susceptibility for an unknown subject at 71% of power with an Area Under Curve (AUC) equal to 0.995. This pilot study evidenced a distinctive oral microbiota composition in COVID-19 subjects, with a definite structural network in relation to secreted cytokines. Our results would be usable in clinics against COVID-19, using bacterial consortia as biomarkers or to reduce local inflammation.
35568022 References 
32527466 References 
35199310 Declarations Disclosures 
35518554 References 
33152182 Referencias 
32590691 REFERENCES 
33547814 REFERENCES We studied the impact of socioeconomic level on the anti-SARS-CoV-2-antibodies prevalence in an Egyptian cohort. The low socioeconomic standard group (LSS) included 51 humans, 30 females (F) and 21 males (M). The high socioeconomic standard group (HSS) included 55 subjects, 24 F and 31 M. Of the 30 LSSF, 6 were immunoglobulin M (IgM), 21 immunoglobulin G (IgG), and 6 double positive. Of the 21 LSSM, 5 were IgM, 12 IgG, and 5 double positive. Of the 24 HSSF, 6 were IgM, 11 IgG, and 5 double positive. Of the 31 HSSM, 6 were IgM, 14 IgG, and 4 double positive. Of the 51 LSS humans, 26 were symptomatic (S) and 25 asymptomatic (AS). Of the 26 S, 20 were IgG and 8 IgM/IgG double positive. Of the 25 AS, 13 were IgG and 3 IgM/IgG double positive. Of the 55 HSS humans, 38 were S and 17 AS. Of the 38S, 24 were IgG and 11 IgM positive of whom, 9 were double positive. Of the 17 AS, one was IgG and one IgM positive. The IgM prevalence was higher among the HSS humans. The IgG prevalence was significantly higher among the LSS humans. In the two different socioeconomic standards, the prevalence of either IgM or IgG was higher among F. An inverse correlation was observed between age and the anti-SARS-CoV-2-antibodies prevalence except for LSSF-IgG and LSSM-IgM. In conclusion, socioeconomic standard, gender, and age impact humoral responses to SARS-CoV-2 with a clear heterogeneity in individualized responses to the infection in terms of symptoms. Socioeconomic standard, gender, and age impact humoral responses to SARS-CoV-2 with a clear heterogeneity in individualized responses to the infection in terms of symptoms.
34491565 Declarations Funding Conflict of interest Availability of data and material Code availability Authors contributions Ethics approval Consent to participate Consent for publication References Traditional approaches to blood regulation emphasise the precautionary principle and pursue zero-risk for viral transmission; these traditional approaches have usually followed tragedy, such as the HIV and hepatitis C infections that followed the use of factor VIII concentrates. However, a much more haphazard haemovigilance system operates for general adverse events. Such imprecise assessment of hazards prevents sound benefit-risk assessment, and for blood products this is further confounded by the fact that their efficacy has attracted little systematic study. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has now prompted the proposal of a convalescent plasma (CP) blood product. Clearly, mere freedom from infectious agents will not suffice in assessing CP, and an objective measure of efficacy, so as to permit formal benefit-risk analysis, is essential. This is both a scientific and an ethical demand, as has been the case for other experimental COVID-19 treatments. With special reference to COVID-19 CP, the well-recognized adverse events of transfusion-associated lung injury (TRALI) and transfusion-associated circulatory overload (TACO) will be important. Furthermore, not only efficacy but also product quality attributes (e.g., antibody titre) will have to be defined. Both of these are outside the traditional regulatory philosophy for blood products and are needed to truly assess the benefit-risk of this putative therapeutic product.
34230210 SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIALS REFERENCES AND NOTES Compared to females, male COVID-19 patients have more kynurenic acid, which may underlie their poorer immune response. Males and females have different immune responses to SARS-CoV-2 infection, with male sex being a risk factor for mortality, particularly among older individuals. Cai et al. performed metabolomics analysis of serum from COVID-19 patients and uninfected health care workers and identified 17 metabolites that were associated with the disease. However, in male COVID-19 patients only, the amount of the tryptophan metabolite kynurenic acid (KA) correlated with age, inflammation, and disease outcome. KA inhibits glutamate release, and glutamate abundance was reduced in patients who deteriorated. Together, these findings indicate that KA is associated with sex-specific differences in immune responses to COVID-19, suggesting that it might be targeted in male patients. Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has poorer clinical outcomes in males than in females, and immune responses underlie these sex-related differences. Because immune responses are, in part, regulated by metabolites, we examined the serum metabolomes of COVID-19 patients. In male patients, kynurenic acid (KA) and a high KA-to-kynurenine (K) ratio (KA:K) positively correlated with age and with inflammatory cytokines and chemokines and negatively correlated with T cell responses. Males that clinically deteriorated had a higher KA:K than those that stabilized. KA inhibits glutamate release, and glutamate abundance was lower in patients that clinically deteriorated and correlated with immune responses. Analysis of data from the Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) project revealed that the expression of the gene encoding the enzyme that produces KA, kynurenine aminotransferase, correlated with cytokine abundance and activation of immune responses in older males. This study reveals that KA has a sex-specific link to immune responses and clinical outcomes in COVID-19, suggesting a positive feedback between metabolites and immune responses in males.
33448086 REFERENCES 
34110314 REFERENCES 
34535859 Author contribution Data availability Declarations Ethical approval Consent to participate Consent to publish Competing interests References 
34412446 REFERENCES Vaccination is considered to be the most effective measure for preventing the spread of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). Many countries, including of Korea, are focusing on achieving herd immunity with the goal of reaching a vaccination rate of 70-80%. However, achieving herd immunity does not mean eradicating COVID-19, and the following challenges can occur in the process of achieving herd immunity. First, as the vaccination rate is likely to slow down over time, it is necessary to promote the benefits of vaccination through risk communication strategies and provide incentives for those who have been vaccinated. Second, a booster dose may be required depending on future studies on vaccine-induced immunity. Third, since variants capable of evading immunity and with higher transmissibility can emerge, rapid contract tracing and regular community genomic surveillance could help mitigate the impact of new variants. When the impact of COVID-19 is controlled to the level of seasonal influenza, the current public health measures that have been strictly imposed on society since the beginning of the pandemic will no longer be needed. The overall response strategy to COVID-19 will need to change accordingly, based on evaluations of the level of population immunity. These changes will include more efficient and targeted contact tracing and eased quarantine measures for vaccinated close contacts and travelers. Mask wearing and a minimum of social distancing will still be required in the journey towards the end of the pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic will end, but the virus will not disappear.
34703462 REFERENCES 
32776538 REFERENCES The current pandemic due to coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has posed an unprecedented challenge for the medical communities, various countries worldwide, and their citizens. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 has been studied for its various pathophysiological pathways and mechanisms through which it causes COVID-19. In this study, we discussed the immunological impact of COVID-19 on the hematological system, platelets, and red blood cells.
32680626 References The COVID-19 pandemic has led to an unprecedented need to re-organise and re-align priorities for all surgical specialties. Despite the current declining numbers globally, the direct effects of the pandemic on institutional practices and on personal stress and coping mechanisms remains unknown. The aims of this study were to assess the effect of the pandemic on daily scheduling and work balances, its effects on stress, and to determine compliance with guidelines and to assess whether quarantining has led to other areas of increased productivity. A trans-Atlantic convenience sample of paediatric urologists was created in which panellists (Zoom) discussed the direct effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on individual units, as well as creating a questionnaire using a mini-Delphi method to provide current semi-quantitative data regarding practice, and adherence levels to recently published risk stratification guidelines. They also filled out a Perceived Stress Scale (PSS) questionnaire to assess contemporary pandemic stress levels. There was an 86% response rate from paediatric urologists. The majority of respondents reported near complete disruption to planned operations (70%), and trainee education (70%). They were also worried about the effects of altered home-lives on productivity (<=90%), as well as a lack of personal protective equipment (57%). The baseline stress rate was measured at a very high level (PSS) during the pandemic. Adherence to recent operative guidelines for urgent cases was 100%. Geographic heatmap demonstrating Transatlantic international discussion of the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on paediatric urological practice. This study represents a panel discussion of a number of practical implications for paediatric urologists, and is one of the few papers to assess more pragmatic effects and combines opinions from both sides of the Atlantic. The impact of the pandemic has been very significant for paediatric urologists and includes a decrease in the number of patients seen and operated on, decreased salary, increased self-reported stress levels, substantially increased telemedicine usage, increased free time for various activities, and good compliance with guidelines and hospital management decisions.
34177926 References We investigated serological responses following a SARS-CoV-2 outbreak in spring 2020 on a US Marine recruit training base. 147 participants that were isolated during an outbreak of respiratory illness were enrolled in this study, with visits approximately 6 and 10 weeks post-outbreak (PO). This cohort is comprised of young healthy adults, ages 18-26, with a high rate of asymptomatic infection or mild symptoms, and therefore differs from previously reported longitudinal studies on humoral responses to SARS-CoV-2, which often focus on more diverse age populations and worse clinical presentation. 80.9% (119/147) of the participants presented with circulating IgG antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 spike (S) receptor-binding domain (RBD) at 6 weeks PO, of whom 97.3% (111/114) remained positive, with significantly decreased levels, at 10 weeks PO. Neutralizing activity was detected in all sera from SARS-CoV-2 IgG positive participants tested (n=38) at 6 and 10 weeks PO, without significant loss between time points. IgG and IgA antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 RBD, S1, S2, and the nucleocapsid (N) protein, as well neutralization activity, were generally comparable between those participants that had asymptomatic infection or mild disease. A multiplex assay including S proteins from SARS-CoV-2 and related zoonotic and human endemic betacoronaviruses revealed a positive correlation for polyclonal cross-reactivity to S after SARS-CoV-2 infection. Overall, young adults that experienced asymptomatic or mild SARS-CoV-2 infection developed comparable humoral responses, with no decrease in neutralizing activity at least up to 10 weeks after infection.
34777896 Declarations Conflict of interest References The COVID-19 outbreak led to an uncontrollable situation and was later declared a global pandemic. RT-PCR is one of the reliable methods for the detection of COVID-19, but it requires transporting samples to sophisticated laboratories and takes a significant amount of time to amplify the viral genome. Therefore, there is an urgent need for a large-scale, rapid, specific, and portable detection kit. Nowadays nanomaterials-based detection technology has been developed and it showed advancement over the conventional methods in selectivity and sensitivity. This review aims at summarising some of the most promising nanomaterial-based sensing technologies for detecting SARS-CoV-2. Nanomaterials possess unique physical, chemical, electrical and optical properties, which can be exploited for the application in biosensors. Furthermore, nanomaterials work on the same scale as biological processes and can be easily functionalized with substrates of interest. These devices do not require extraordinary sophistication and are suitable for use by common individuals without high-tech laboratories. Electrochemical and colorimetric methods similar to glucometer and pregnancy test kits are discussed and reviewed as potential diagnostic devices for COVID-19. Other devices working on the principle of immune response and microarrays are also discussed as possible candidates. Nanomaterials such as metal nanoparticles, graphene, quantum dots, and CNTs enhance the limit of detection and accuracy of the biosensors to give spontaneous results. The challenges of industrial-scale production of these devices are also discussed. If mass production is successfully developed, these sensors can ramp up the testing to provide the accurate number of people affected by the virus, which is extremely critical in today's scenario.
32100024 Note References 
34867122 Funding Declarations Conflict of interest References The Fear of COVID-19 Scale (FCV-19S) assesses the fear of the novel coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) and has been translated and validated into over 20 languages. The present study conducted confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) and item response theory (IRT) analyses on the FCV-19S among a sample of 937 Pakistani adults (mean [SD] age of 25.83 [11.80] years; 537 [57.3%] females). The CFA and IRT confirmed the unidimensionality of the FCV-19S. The Likert-type scale used in the FCV-19S was supported by the proper threshold orderings. Additionally, no DIF contrast had an absolute value larger than 0.5 regarding the participants' characteristics of gender, age, living status, and education in the IRT findings. The FCV-19S was found to be valid and reliable with strong psychometric properties among the Pakistani adult population.
35066705 Author contributions Funding Data availability Code availability Declarations Conflict of interest Ethical approval Consent to participate Consent for publication References Since the initial outbreak of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), extensive research has emerged from across the globe to understand the pathophysiology of this novel coronavirus. Transmission of this virus is a subject of particular interest as researchers work to understand which protective and preventative measures are most effective. Despite the well understood model of aerosol-respiratory mediated transmission, the exact mechanism underlying the inoculation, infection and spread of COVID-19 is currently unknown. Given anatomical positioning and near constant exposure to aerosolized pathogens, the eye may be a possible gateway for COVID-19 infection. This critical review explores the possibility of an ocular-systemic or ocular-nasal-pulmonic pathway of COVID-19 infection and includes novel insights into the possible immunological mechanisms leading to cytokine surge.
35382039 Funding Declarations Conflict of Interest Informed consent References Adolescents may be more vulnerable to COVID-19-related impacts and require long-term mental health care. Services that bolster emotion regulation, such as mindfulness-based interventions (MBIs) promote positive impacts on psychosocial outcomes and have high acceptability. No studies have assessed feasibility, treatment perceptions and satisfaction of online MBIs with adolescents. 56 moderate- and high-risk adolescent (m = 14.5 years, 66.1% female, 26.8% LatinX) participants tested the feasibility, treatment perceptions and satisfaction of an 8-session online MBI focused on observing non-judgmentally, attending to positivity, and self-soothing. The study achieved acceptable feasibility with high attendance (m = 5.75) and retention rates (87.5%). The moderate- vs. high-risk group reported significantly higher ratings of treatment perceptions (t = 2.03, p < .05, d = 0.60). Significant associations were found between increased pre-test depression and anxiety symptomology and reduced intervention utility (rs = -0.34 and -0.32, ps < .05). This study demonstrated feasibility, treatment perceptions and satisfaction of an online MBI for adolescents presenting with two risk levels. Higher-risk adolescents may need a higher-touch intervention than moderate-risk, who may be more likely to find online MBIs acceptable. The impact of adjunctive MBIs for adolescents on treatment attendance and mental health outcomes over longer periods is necessary to understand patterns in effective adolescent treatment options. The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s12144-022-03025-x.
34986676 References During the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, antibody screening is a critical tool to assess anti-severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) immunity. We examined variation in antibody titers associated with age and sex among patients with confirmed COVID-19. Blood IgG levels were tested in 1081 patients with positive SARS-CoV-2 quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) tests between 1 September and 31 December 2020. Patients who did not experience reinfection were identified. Serum IgG levels were measured by immunofluorescence assay. Antibody positivity and antibody titers were analyzed according to time since infection, sex, and age. The mean (standard deviation) age was 41.2 (14.2) years and 41.2% of patients were women. The lowest antibody positivity rate between the first and ninth month post-infection was detected in the sixth month. The lowest antibody titers among patients aged 20 to 80 years occurred in those aged 30 to 39 years. The IgG titer was positively correlated with age in years (r = 0.125) and decades (r = 0.126). Six months after infection, anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibody titers increased. Anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibody titers also increased with age. Immunity and pathogenicity should be investigated in addition to antibody positivity rates and antibody titers.
32421878  During the recent ongoing coronavirus disease-2019 (COVID-19) outbreak, healthcare workers around the world are fighting at the front lines of this epidemic, as well as the dermatologists. Our previous research revealed that long-term wearing of N95 masks could lead to various facial skin lesions, which might affect their routine work and mental health. More importantly, severe skin lesions (e.g. ulcers) might put them in danger of being infected. Generally, hydrogels have been used to treat patients with pressure ulcers.
34906234 Authors' contributions Funding Availability of data and materials Ethics approval and consent to participate Consent for publication Competing interests References In the 10 years since its founding, the Israel Journal of Health Policy Research has established itself as an important voice in Israeli and international health policy. The Journal's ability to combine national and international perspectives on key issues in health services delivery and health systems analysis has developed a valuable new arena for academic research about the increasingly complex post-COVID future of health care systems.
33999135  Acute respiratory distress syndrome and cytokine release syndrome are the major complications of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) associated with increased mortality risk. We performed a meta-analysis to assess the efficacy and safety of anakinra in adult hospitalized non-intubated patients with COVID-19. Relevant trials were identified by searching literature until 24 April 2021 using the following terms: anakinra, interleukin 1, coronavirus, COVID-19, SARS-CoV-2. Trials evaluating the effect of anakinra on the need for invasive mechanical ventilation and mortality in hospitalized non-intubated patients with COVID-19. Nine studies (n = 1,119) were eligible for inclusion in the present meta-analysis. Their bias risk with reference to the assessed parameters was high. In pooled analyses, anakinra reduced the need for invasive mechanical ventilation (odds ratio, OR: 0 38, 95% confidence interval, CI: 0 17-0 85, p= 0.02, I2=67%; 6 studies, n = 587) and mortality risk (OR: 0 32, 95% CI: 0 23-0 45, p< 0 00001, I2=0%; 9 studies, n = 1,119) compared with standard of care therapy. There were no differences regarding the risk of adverse events, including liver dysfunction (OR: 0 75, 95% CI: 0 48-1 16, p> 0 05, I2=28%; 5 studies, n = 591) and bacteremia (OR: 1 07, 95% CI: 0 42-2 73, p> 0 05, I2=71%; 6 studies, n = 727). Available evidence shows that treatment with anakinra reduces both the need for invasive mechanical ventilation and mortality risk of hospitalized non-intubated patients with COVID-19 without increasing the risk of adverse events. Confirmation of efficacy and safety requires randomized placebo-controlled trials.
32635695 References 
33590152 References This paper establishes that there is a need to turn to virtue ethics in dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic. It argues that the virtue of solidarity can be a companion virtue to compassion for medical frontline workers and other individuals involved. Like compassion, the virtue of solidarity is a reminder that everyone is in this crisis together and that each is responsible for all.
33988134 References The aim of this research was to review the articles published by the Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT) departments of the Italian University Hospitals in 2019 and in 2020 to analyze the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the academic production. PubMed and Scopus were searched for the articles published by the ENT departments of the Italian Universities in 2019 and in 2020. The main eligibility criteria were English-language articles, while there were no exclusion criteria related to topic. The articles were classified into seven domains corresponding to the main ENT subspecialties. There was an overall increase in the number of articles by the 42.2% in 2020. Publications pertaining Rhinology and Laryngology increased more significantly in 2020, respectively by the 50.5% and 72.2%. Additionally, there was an increase in the number of articles concerning topics of general interest, by the 95.2% in 2020. Also, the citation trends of the articles published by the Italian University Hospitals increased remarkably in 2020. These results evidenced an overall increase in the number of ENT articles. Although 2020 is going to be remembered as a year to forget, it should be acknowledged for being the "golden year of research". However, the scientific community needs quality more than quantity and it is now more important than ever to provide optimal medical indications and clear answers to patients' questions.
32294078 References During February 2020, the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) epidemic in Hubei Province, China, was at its height, requiring isolation of the population. This study aimed to compare the emotional state, somatic responses, sleep quality, and behavior of people in Hubei Province with non-endemic provinces in China during two weeks in February 2020. Questionnaires were completed by 939 individuals (357 men; 582 women), including 33 from Hubei and 906 from non-endemic provinces. The Stress Response Questionnaire (SRQ) determined the emotional state, somatic responses, and behavior. The Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) was used to measure the duration of sleep and sleep quality. There were 939 study participants, aged 18-24 years (35.89%) and 25-39 years (35.57%); 65.92% were university students. During a two week period in February 2020, the emotional state and behavior of participants in Hubei improved, but the quality of sleep did not. Health workers and business people became increasingly anxious, but other professionals became less anxious. The data showed that most people in Hubei Province developed a more positive attitude regarding their risk of infection and the chances of surviving the COVID-19 epidemic. During a two-week period, front-line health workers and people in Hubei Province became less anxious about the COVID-19 epidemic, but sleep quality did not improve. Despite public awareness, levels of anxiety exist that affect the quality of life during epidemics, including periods of population quarantine. Therefore, health education should be combined with psychological counseling for vulnerable individuals.
34413324 Author contributions Funding Competing interests References The COVID-19 pandemic has created an urgent need for robust, scalable monitoring tools supporting stratification of high-risk patients. This research aims to develop and validate prediction models, using the UK Biobank, to estimate COVID-19 mortality risk in confirmed cases. From the 11,245 participants testing positive for COVID-19, we develop a data-driven random forest classification model with excellent performance (AUC: 0.91), using baseline characteristics, pre-existing conditions, symptoms, and vital signs, such that the score could dynamically assess mortality risk with disease deterioration. We also identify several significant novel predictors of COVID-19 mortality with equivalent or greater predictive value than established high-risk comorbidities, such as detailed anthropometrics and prior acute kidney failure, urinary tract infection, and pneumonias. The model design and feature selection enables utility in outpatient settings. Possible applications include supporting individual-level risk profiling and monitoring disease progression across patients with COVID-19 at-scale, especially in hospital-at-home settings.
34383756 References Decision Letter 0 Author response to Decision Letter 0 Decision Letter 1 Author response to Decision Letter 1 Decision Letter 2 Acceptance letter A mathematical model for the COVID-19 pandemic spread, which integrates age-structured Susceptible-Exposed-Infected-Recovered-Deceased dynamics with real mobile phone data accounting for the population mobility, is presented. The dynamical model adjustment is performed via Approximate Bayesian Computation. Optimal lockdown and exit strategies are determined based on nonlinear model predictive control, constrained to public-health and socio-economic factors. Through an extensive computational validation of the methodology, it is shown that it is possible to compute robust exit strategies with realistic reduced mobility values to inform public policy making, and we exemplify the applicability of the methodology using datasets from England and France. In many countries, the COVID-19 pandemic has revealed a gap between public policy making and the use of advanced technological tools to inform such a process. In the big data era, decisions concerning the implementation of quarantines and travel restrictions are still being taken based on incomplete public health data, despite the myriad of information our society provides in real time, such as mobility data, commuting network structures, and financial patterns, to name a few. To advance towards an effective data-driven, quantitative policy making, we propose a computational framework where a predictive epidemiological model is fitted by feeding both public health and Google mobility data. The resulting model is then used as a basis for designing mobility reduction strategies which are optimised taking into account both the healthcare system capacity, and the economic impact of an extended lockdown. For the COVID-19 pandemic in England and France, we show that it is possible to design lockdown policies allowing a partial return to workplaces and schools, while maintaining the epidemic under control.
32675000 References To assess the agreement between two rapid detection tests (RDT) for antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 infection. This was a cross-sectional study that used a random sample of non-hospitalized patients from the primary care management division of the Healthcare Area of Leon (58 RT-PCR-positive cases and 52 RT-PCR-negative cases). Information regarding symptoms was collected and all patients were simultaneously tested using two RDTs (Combined - cRDT and Differentiated - dRDT). The results of both tests were evaluated using the chi-square test and, for degree of agreement, the kappa coefficient. About 52% of the participants were women (mean age: 48.2 +- 11.0 years). A total of 58.2% were positive for d-RDT and 41.2% were positive for c-RDT. In the subjects who were RT-PCR-positive, d-RDT was positive in 72.4% and c-RDT in 55.2%; in those who were RT-PCR-negative, the percentages were 42.3% and 26.9%, respectively. The kappa coefficient observed between the two RDTs was 0.644, and was higher in patients without a fever or anosmia (0.725) and lower in those with a fever or anosmia (0.524). There is good agreement between the tests used in this study. Given the sensitivity observed, they can be very useful as a complement to RT-PCR.
34289965 References Recent research suggests that between 20% and 50% of paediatric head injuries attending our emergency department (ED) could be safely discharged soon after triage, without the need for medical review, using a 'Head Injury Discharge At Triage' tool (HIDAT). We sought to implement this into clinical practice. Paediatric ED triage staff underwent competency-based assessments for HIDAT with all head injury presentations 1 May to 31 October 2020 included in analysis. We determined which patients were discharged using the tool, which underwent CT of the brain and whether there was a clinically important traumatic brain injury or representation to the ED. Of the 1429 patients screened; 610 (43%) screened negative with 250 (18%) discharged by nursing staff. Of the entire cohort, 32 CTs were performed for head injury concerns (6 abnormal) with 1 CT performed in the HIDAT negative group (normal). Of those discharged using HIDAT, four reattended, two with vomiting (no imaging or admission) and two with minor scalp wound infections. Two patients who screened negative declined discharge under the policy with later medical discharge (no imaging or admission). Paediatric ED attendances were 29% lower than in 2018. We have successfully implemented HIDAT into local clinical practice. The number discharged (18%) is lower than originally described; this is likely multifactorial. The relationship between COVID-19 and paediatric ED attendances is unclear but decreased attendances suggest those for whom the tool was originally designed are not attending ED and may be accessing other medical/non-medical resources
33902480 Abbreviations Authors' contributions Funding Availability of data and materials Declarations Ethics approval and consent to participate Consent for publication Competing interests References The epidemiology and outcomes of COVID-19 patients in Thailand are scarce. This retrospective cohort study included adult hospitalized patients who were diagnosed with COVID-19 at Siriraj Hospital during February 2020 to April 2020. The prevalence of COVID-19 was 7.5% (107 COVID-19 patients) among 1409 patients who underwent RT-PCR for SARS-CoV-2 detection at our hospital during the outbreak period. Patients with COVID-19 presented with symptoms in 94.4%. Among the 104 patients who were treated with antiviral medications, 78 (75%) received 2-drug regimen (lopinavir/ritonavir or darunavir/ritonavir plus chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine), and 26 (25%) received a 3-drug regimen with favipiravir added to the 2-drug regimen. Disease progression was observed in 18 patients (16.8%). All patients with COVID-19 were discharged alive. The prevalence of COVID-19 was 7.5% among patients who underwent RT-PCR testing, and 10% among those having risk factors for COVID-19 acquisition. Combination antiviral therapies for COVID-19 patients were well-tolerated and produced a favorable outcome.
34873885  The coronavirus disease 2019, or COVID-19, has had a major psychological impact on healthcare workers. However, very few scales are available to specifically assess work-related stress and anxiety in healthcare workers responding to a viral epidemic. This study developed a new assessment tool, the Stress and Anxiety to Viral Epidemics-9 (SAVE-9) and aimed to validate it among healthcare workers directly affected by COVID-19 in Korea. A total of 1,019 healthcare workers responded through anonymous questionnaires during April 20-30, 2020. Exploratory factor analysis (EFA) was conducted to explore the construct validity, and the reliability was assessed using internal consistency measures of Cronbach's alpha coefficients. Receiver operating characteristic analysis was conducted to define the most appropriate cut-off point of SAVE-9 using the Generalized Anxiety Disorder-7 scale (GAD-7; >= 5). Second, Spearman's rank correlation coefficient was used to establish convergent validity for the SAVE-9 questionnaire with GAD-7 and the Patient Health Questionnaire-9. The nine-item scale had satisfactory internal consistency (Cronbach's alpha = 0.795). It adopted a two-factor structure: 1) anxiety regarding viral epidemics and 2) work-related stress associated with viral epidemics. A cut-off score of 22 for the SAVE-9 ascertained levels of stress and anxiety in response to a viral epidemic in healthcare workers that warranted clinical attention. Correlations between the SAVE-9 and the other scales were statistically significant (P < 0.05). The results suggest that the SAVE-9 is a useful, reliable, and valid tool to evaluate stress and anxiety responses in healthcare workers during viral epidemics.
33626376 References 
34403943 References Face masks are necessary for fighting against the coronavirus disease 2019 around the world. As the face mask is usually made from polymers and phthalates are widely-used additives into the polymers, the face mask could be a potential source of phthalate exposure to humans. However, limited knowledge is available on the occurrence and risks of the phthalates from the face mask. In this study, twelve phthalates were determined in 56 mask samples collected from different countries. The phthalates were detected in all the samples with total levels ranging from 115 ng/g to 37,700 ng/g. Estimated daily intakes (EDIs) of the phthalates from the masks ranged from 3.71 to 639 ng/kg-bw/day, and the EDIs of the phthalates from masks for toddlers were approximately 4-5 times higher than those for adults. Non-carcinogenic risks in relation to the phthalates in masks were found to be within safe levels, yet 89.3% of the mask samples exhibited potential carcinogenic effects to humans. The extent of the risks for wearing masks located at a moderate level comparing with other skin-contacted products. This study unveiled a potential source of phthalate exposure to human, and indicated necessity of managing types and levels of additives in the face masks.
34629857 Bibliografia Realizar una sintesis de la evidencia disponible para establecer recomendaciones sobre el abordaje del duelo y la muerte en familiares de pacientes con COVID-19, asi como ofrecer recursos sustitutivos de los rituales y procedimientos necesarios con el fin de favorecer duelos funcionales y prevenir duelos complicados. Se realizo busqueda bibliografica en bases de datos MEDLINE, EMBASE, SCIENCEDIRECT, WOS, CINAHL y CUIDEN, utilizando terminos MeSH (family, patient, isolation hospitals, grief, death, ceremonial behavior, self care, affects y social networking) con su ecuacion booleana correspondiente. Los articulos seleccionados se sometieron a una lectura critica a traves del Critical Apraisal Skill Programme en espanol. Se encontraron 560 articulos atingentes; tras aplicar los criterios de seleccion 13 estudios se incluyeron en el analisis, de los cuales 8 eran revisiones sistematicas, 3 estudios cualitativos, un estudio piloto prospectivo transversal y una guia clinica, que permitieron identificar estrategias para el abordaje del duelo y la muerte atendiendo a este momento de excepcionalidad de la COVID-19, incidiendo en el manejo competencial de los profesionales sanitarios en apoyo emocional y en el acompanamiento, asi como en el seguimiento durante todo el proceso y en la comunicacion con la familia. En el proceso final de la vida en tiempos de la COVID-19 los profesionales sanitarios deben trabajar despedidas, los ritos funebres alternativos, la atencion espiritual y el afrontamiento precoz que permitiran a su vez la prevencion del duelo complicado.
34682492 Author Contributions Funding Institutional Review Board Statement Informed Consent Statement Data Availability Statement Conflicts of Interest References In Sub-Saharan Africa, communicable and other tropical infectious diseases remain major challenges apart from the continuing HIV/AIDS epidemic. Recognition and prevalence of non-communicable diseases have risen throughout Africa, and the reimagining of healthcare delivery is needed to support communities coping with not only with HIV, tuberculosis, and COVID-19, but also cancer, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and depression. Many non-communicable diseases can be prevented or treated with low-cost interventions, yet implementation of such care has been limited in the region. In this Perspective piece, we argue that deployment of an integrated service delivery model is an urgent next step, propose a South African model for integration, and conclude with recommendations for next steps in research and implementation. An approach that is inspired by South African experience would build on existing HIV-focused infrastructure that has been developed by Ministries of Health with strong support from the U.S. President's Emergency Response for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) and the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. An integrated chronic healthcare model holds promise to sustainably deliver infectious disease and non-communicable disease care. Integrated care will be especially critical as health systems seek to cope with the unprecedented challenges associated with COVID-19 and future pandemic threats.
35399336 Funding Conflict of interest References This article studies how different systems of policy advice are suited to provide relevant knowledge in times of acute crisis. The notion of evidence-based policymaking (EBP) originated in the successful 1997 New Labour program in the United Kingdom to formulate policy based not on ideology but on sound empirical evidence. We provide a brief overview of the history of the concept and the current debates around it. We then outline the main characteristics of the policy advisory systems in Germany, Switzerland, and Italy through which scientific knowledge:in the form of either person-bound expertise or evidence generated through standard scientific processes:was fed into policy formulation processes before the COVID-19 crisis. Whereas EBP takes place in the form of institutionalized advisory bodies and draws on expertise rather than on evidence in Germany, the system in Switzerland focuses more on the use of evidence provided through external mandates. Italy has a hybrid politicized expert system. The article then analyzes how this different prioritization of expertise vs. evidence in the three countries affects policymakers' capacity to include scientific knowledge in policy decisions in times of acute crisis. The comparison of the three countries implies that countries with policy advisory systems designed to use expertise are better placed to incorporate scientific knowledge into their decisions in times of acute crisis than are countries with policy advisory systems that relied primarily on evidence before the COVID-19 crisis. The online version of this article (10.1007/s11615-022-00382-x) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
33461516 Abbreviations Authors' contributions Funding Availability of data and materials Ethics approval and consent to participate Consent for publication Competing interests References This study sought to assess the quality and readability of web-based Arabic health information on COVID-19. Three search engines were searched on 13 April 2020 for specific Arabic terms on COVID-19. The first 100 consecutive websites from each engine were analyzed for eligibility, which resulted in a sample of 36 websites. These websites were subjected to quality assessments using the Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA) benchmarks tool, the DISCERN tool, and Health on the Net Foundation Code of Conduct (HONcode) certification. The readability of the websites was assessed using an online readability calculator. Among the 36 eligible websites, only one (2.7%) was HONcode certified. No website attained a high score based on the criteria of the DISCERN tool; the mean score of all websites was 31.5 +- 12.55. As regards the JAMA benchmarks results, a mean score of 2.08 +- 1.05 was achieved by the websites; however, only four (11.1%) met all the JAMA criteria. The average grade levels for readability were 7.2 +- 7.5, 3.3 +- 0.6 and 93.5 +- 19.4 for the Flesch Kincaid Grade Level, Simple Measure of Gobbledygook, and Flesch Reading Ease scales, respectively. Almost all of the most easily accessible web-based Arabic health information on COVID-19 does not meet recognized quality standards regardless of the level of readability and ability to be understood by the general population of Arabic speakers. The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12889-021-10218-9.
32358765 Disclosures Funding statement Editorial responsibility References 
35095602 References The spread of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) causing coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic has led to numerous negative consequences on the mental health of the population throughout the world. The main aim of our study was to compare the risk for depression, anxiety, and stress during the second wave of the pandemic in Slovenia. An additional goal was to analyze the association of depression, anxiety, and stress, with the most relevant subjective factors that define the quality of life. Furthermore, we aimed at determining whether health workers have a higher risk for depression following the course of the pandemic. The study was conducted on the general population, between July 2020 and January 2021 through an online survey. The data of 1,728 respondents in two samples of respondents (782 at baseline - first measurement point and 946 during the second measurement point) of the second wave were analyzed using zero-inflated negative binomial regression and Mann-Whitney U-test. The findings of this study show that the rise the second wave was associated with a higher risk for depression, anxiety and stress. The risk for all three was higher for younger participants. Women showed a higher risk for anxiety and stress. Finances, relationships, and housing dissatisfaction were relevant predictors for depression, anxiety and stress. Health workers in our sample showed a higher risk for stress, but not for depression or anxiety, than the general population. Our findings highlight the urgent need for coordinating and developing mental health services and tailored interventions to reduce the mental health burden, especially in the younger.
34897635 References 
33797339 References SARS-CoV-2 outbreak in China in December 2019 and its spread as worldwide pandemic has been a major global health crisis. Extremely high infection and mortality rate has severely affected all sectors of life and derailed the global economy. While drug and vaccine development have been prioritized and have made significant progression, use of phytochemicals and herbal constituents is deemed as a low-cost, safer and readily available alternative. We investigated therapeutic efficacy of eight withanolides (derived from Ashwagandha) against the angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) proteins, a target cell surface receptor for SARS-CoV-2 and report results on the (i) computational analyses including binding affinity and stable interactions with ACE2, occupancy of ACE2 residues in making polar and nonpolar interactions with different withanolides/ligands and (2) in vitro mRNA and protein analyses using human cancer (A549, MCF7 and HSC3) cells. We found that among all withanolides, Withaferin-A, Withanone, Withanoside-IV and Withanoside-V significantly inhibited the ACE2 expression. Analysis of withanolides-rich aqueous extracts derived from Ashwagandha leaves and stem showed a higher ACE2 inhibitory potency of stem-derived extracts. Taken together, we demonstrated the inhibitory potency of Ashwagandha withanolides and its aqueous extracts against ACE2. Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma
35194549 References Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is an impairing mental health condition defined by intense distress in the presence of unwanted, recurrent thoughts, images, or impulses which are accompanied by compulsions and avoidance performed to reduce distress. During the COVID-19 pandemic, OCD has continued to be an impairing mental health condition regardless of symptom dimensionality (e.g., contamination, harm, etc.) with varying reports of the overall clinical course. However, changes in the assessment, treatment, and diagnosis of OCD have occurred to personalize care and be aligned with public health guidelines. Exposure and response prevention and pharmacotherapy remain the treatment of choice, even though the setting in which treatment is conducted may have shifted. Telehealth in particular has been a 'game-changer' for clinicians and patients alike. Given the continued health risk posed by the pandemic, treatment personalization should still be made to ensure safety for both patients and providers while balancing efficacy and patient preferences.
34696346 Author Contributions Funding Institutional Review Board Statement Informed Consent Statement Data Availability Statement Conflicts of Interest References Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is a multisystem disease caused by Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), that primarily causes respiratory symptoms. However, an increasing number of cutaneous manifestations associated with this disease have been reported. The aim of this study is to analyze the scientific literature on cutaneous manifestations associated with SARS-CoV-2 by means of a narrative literature review until June 2021. The search was conducted in the following electronic databases: Medline (PubMed), SciELO, and Cochrane Library Plus. The most common cutaneous manifestations in patients with COVID-19 are vesicular eruptions, petechial/purpuric rashes, acral lesions, liveoid lesions, urticarial rash, and maculopapular-erythematous rash. These manifestations may be the first presenting symptoms of SARS-CoV-2 infection, as is the case with acral lesions, vesicular eruptions, and urticaria. In relation to severity, the presence of liveoid lesions may be associated with a more severe course of the disease. Treatment used for dermatological lesions includes therapy with anticoagulants, corticosteroids, and antihistamines. Knowledge of the dermatologic manifestations associated with SARS-CoV-2 contributes to the diagnosis of COVID-19 in patients with skin lesions associated with respiratory symptoms or in asymptomatic patients. In addition, understanding the dermatologic lesions associated with COVID-19 could be useful to establish a personalized care plan.
32500431 Compliance with ethical standards Conflict of interest Research involving human participants and/or animals Informed consent References COVID-19 is rapidly spreading worldwide. Healthcare systems are struggling to properly allocate resources while ensuring cure for diseases outside of the infection. The aim of this study was to demonstrate how surgical activity was affected by the virus outbreak and show the changes in practice in a tertiary referral COVID-19 center. The official bulletins of the Italian National Institute for the Infectious Diseases "L. Spallanzani" were reviewed to retrieve the number of daily COVID-19 patients. Records of consecutive oncological and transplant procedures performed during the outbreak were reviewed. Patients with a high probability of postoperative intensive care unit (ICU) admission were considered as high risk and defined by an ASA score >= III and/or a Charlson Comorbidity Index (CCI) >= 6 and/or a Revised Cardiac Risk Index for Preoperative Risk (RCRI) >= 3. 72 patients were operated, including 12 (16.6%) liver and kidney transplantations. Patients had few comorbidities (26.3%), low ASA score (1.9 +- 0.5), CCI (3.7 +- 1.3), and RCRI (1.2 +- 0.6) and had overall a low risk of postoperative ICU admission. Few patients had liver cirrhosis (12.5%) or received preoperative systemic therapy (16.6%). 36 (50%) high-risk surgical procedures were performed, including major hepatectomies, pancreaticoduodenectomies, total gastrectomies, multivisceral resections, and transplantations. Despite this, only 15 patients (20.8%) were admitted to the ICU. Only oncologic cases and transplantations were performed during the COVID-19 outbreak. Careful selection of patients allowed to perform major cancer surgeries and transplantations without further stressing hospital resources, meanwhile minimizing collateral damage to patients.
34819524 Author contributions Data availability Competing interests References Since the outbreak of COVID-19 in 2019, the rapid spread of the epidemic has brought huge challenges to medical institutions. If the pathological region in the COVID-19 CT image can be automatically segmented, it will help doctors quickly determine the patient's infection, thereby speeding up the diagnosis process. To be able to automatically segment the infected area, we proposed a new network structure and named QC-HC U-Net. First, we combine residual connection and dense connection to form a new connection method and apply it to the encoder and the decoder. Second, we choose to add Hypercolumns in the decoder section. Compared with the benchmark 3D U-Net, the improved network can effectively avoid vanishing gradient while extracting more features. To improve the situation of insufficient data, resampling and data enhancement methods are selected in this paper to expand the datasets. We used 63 cases of MSD lung tumor data for training and testing, continuously verified to ensure the training effect of this model, and then selected 20 cases of public COVID-19 data for training and testing. Experimental results showed that in the segmentation of COVID-19, the specificity and sensitivity were 85.3% and 83.6%, respectively, and in the segmentation of MSD lung tumors, the specificity and sensitivity were 81.45% and 80.93%, respectively, without any fitting.
32834192 References 
33614055 References The COVID-19 pandemic has widespread implications not only for clinical practice but also for academic medicine and postgraduate training. The need to promote physical distancing and flexibility within our department has generated important revisions to the core curriculum for the Adult Nephrology Training Program in Vancouver, Canada. We reviewed available educational resources and objectives to develop curricular adaptations informed by staff and trainee feedback. Many facets of the program including clinical rotations, scholarly activities, evaluation, and wellness have been impacted, and thus revised for online delivery where possible. Trainees have personalized a learning plan based on individual goals and supplemented by a list of internet-based resources for independent review. Changes in learning objectives and methods for specific rotations have occurred and are described. Ongoing evaluation will be undertaken. Curriculum adaptation in the era of COVID-19 is necessary to ensure ongoing high-quality education for future nephrologists. We describe existing changes to formal training in British Columbia (BC), which will be tailored as the pandemic evolves, and anticipate them to have lasting impact on the way we structure training programs in the future. Standardization and harmonization of modified curriculum may be possible across Canada with sharing of these learnings. Formal evaluation of these changes in terms of knowledge acquisition and examination performance has not yet been undertaken. Next steps will include assessing and documenting the impact of this curricular transformation to further optimize scheduling, educational yield, and trainee wellness.
34824253 Author contributions Funding Data availability Competing interests References The bat sarbecovirus RaTG13 is a close relative of SARS-CoV-2, the cause of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, this bat virus was most likely unable to directly infect humans since its Spike (S) protein does not interact efficiently with the human ACE2 receptor. Here, we show that a single T403R mutation increases binding of RaTG13 S to human ACE2 and allows VSV pseudoparticle infection of human lung cells and intestinal organoids. Conversely, mutation of R403T in the SARS-CoV-2 S reduces pseudoparticle infection and viral replication. The T403R RaTG13 S is neutralized by sera from individuals vaccinated against COVID-19 indicating that vaccination might protect against future zoonoses. Our data suggest that a positively charged amino acid at position 403 in the S protein is critical for efficient utilization of human ACE2 by S proteins of bat coronaviruses. This finding could help to better predict the zoonotic potential of animal coronaviruses. The bat sarbecovirus RaTG13 is a close relative of SARS-CoV-2, but its spike protein doesn't efficiently bind human ACE2. Here, the authors show that exchange of spike residue 403 between RaTG13 and SARS-CoV-2 spike proteins affects binding to human ACE2 and entry of pseudotyped viruses.
32582329 REFERENCES Currently Covid-19 pandemic is a leading challenge across the globe. It is mandatory to attain and maintain good nutritional status to fight against virus. Nutritional status of individual is affected by several factors such as age, sex, health status, life style and medications. Nutritional status of individuals has been used as resilience towards destabilization during this COVID-19 pandemic. Optimal nutrition and dietary nutrient intake impact the immune system, therefore the only sustainable way to survive in current context is to strengthen the immune system. There is no evidence found that supplement can cure the immune system except Vit C, which is one of the best way to improve immune system. A proper diet can ensure that the body is in proper state to defeat the virus. However along with the dietary management guidelines the food safety management and good food practices is compulsory. This article explores the importance of nutrition to boost immunity and gives some professional and authentic dietary guidelines about nutrition and food safety to withstand COVID-19.
34649268 Author contributions Funding Data availability Code availability Competing interests References The evolution of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) virus leads to new variants that warrant timely epidemiological characterization. Here we use the dense genomic surveillance data generated by the COVID-19 Genomics UK Consortium to reconstruct the dynamics of 71 different lineages in each of 315 English local authorities between September 2020 and June 2021. This analysis reveals a series of subepidemics that peaked in early autumn 2020, followed by a jump in transmissibility of the B.1.1.7/Alpha lineage. The Alpha variant grew when other lineages declined during the second national lockdown and regionally tiered restrictions between November and December 2020. A third more stringent national lockdown suppressed the Alpha variant and eliminated nearly all other lineages in early 2021. Yet a series of variants (most of which contained the spike E484K mutation) defied these trends and persisted at moderately increasing proportions. However, by accounting for sustained introductions, we found that the transmissibility of these variants is unlikely to have exceeded the transmissibility of the Alpha variant. Finally, B.1.617.2/Delta was repeatedly introduced in England and grew rapidly in early summer 2021, constituting approximately 98% of sampled SARS-CoV-2 genomes on 26 June 2021. A study of the evolution of the SARS-CoV-2 virus in England between September 2020 and June 2021 finds that interventions capable of containing previous variants were insufficient to stop the more transmissible Alpha and Delta variants.
34868831 References Governments and health officials are eager to gain a thorough understanding of the dynamics of COVID-19 transmission in order to devise strategies to mitigate the pandemic's negative effects. As a result, we created a new fractional order mathematical model to investigate the dynamics of Covid-19 vaccine transmission in Ethiopia. The nonlinear system of differential equations for the model is represented using Atangana-Baleanu fractional derivative in Caputo sense and the Jacobi spectral collocation method is used to convert this system into an algebraic system of equations, which is then solved using inexact Newton's method. The fundamental reproduction number, for the proposed model is determined using the next generation matrix approach.
32502119 References Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), a novel infectious coronavirus disease, has become a worldwide pandemic. Infection control precautions for hospital visitors are needed to avoid cluster outbreaks, so this study investigated the visiting policies of all the hospitals in Taiwan in the time of COVID-19. From March 15, 2020, to March 18, 2020, we searched the official websites of all 472 National Health Insurance-contracted hospitals to determine their visiting policies. For those hospitals that had posted new visiting policies and still allowed visits to ordinary wards, we recorded the relevant details shown on their websites, including the number of visitors allowed at one time, the number of visiting slots per day, the total visiting hours per day, and the rules provided to visitors before visiting. During the study period, 276 (58.5%) hospitals had posted new visiting policies on their websites, with higher proportions of academic medical centers (92.0%, 23/25) and metropolitan hospitals (91.5%, 75/82) than local community hospitals (48.8%, 178/365) doing so. Visits to ordinary wards were forbidden in 83 hospitals among those. Among the 193 hospitals that had new visiting policies and still allowed visits to ordinary wards, 73.1% (n = 141) restricted visitors to two at a time and 54.9% (n = 106) restricted visits to two visiting slots per day. Furthermore, history taking regarding travel, occupation, contacts, and cluster information was mentioned by 82.4% (n = 159) of these 193 hospitals, body temperature monitoring by 78.2% (n = 151), hand hygiene by 63.2% (n = 122), and identity checks by 51.8% (n = 100). In the time of COVID-19 covered by this study, about three-fifths of the hospitals in Taiwan had posted their visiting policies for ordinary wards on their websites. Furthermore, the thoroughness with which such visiting policies have been enforced also requires investigation.
32596482 REFERENCES 
35263375 Abbreviations References Decision Letter 0 Author response to Decision Letter 0 Decision Letter 1 Author response to Decision Letter 1 Decision Letter 2 Acceptance letter Even though people of the world were eagerly waiting for the hope of vaccine development, vaccine hesitancy is becoming the top concern in both developed and developing countries. However, there is no adequate evidence regarding the attitude and perception of health professionals towards the COVID 19 vaccine in resource-limited settings like Ethiopia. The aim of this study was to assess health professionals' attitudes and perceptions towards COVID 19 vaccine in Western Ethiopia. An institution-based cross-sectional study was conducted among health care workers found in Nekemte town from April 14-21, 2021. A total of 439 health professionals present on duty during the study period was included in the study. The data were collected by using self-administered questionnaire. Epidata version 3.2 was used for data entry, and STATA version 14 was used for data analysis. The binary logistic regression model was employed to determine factors associated with the attitude towards COVID-19 vaccination. Adjusted Odds Ratio (AOR) with 95% confidence intervals was computed and statistical significance was declared at a 5% level (p-value < 0.05). A total of 431 health professionals participated in the study yielding a response rate of 98.1%. The results indicated that 51.28% (95%CI: 45.12%, 57.34%) of health professionals had a favorable attitude towards COVID-19 vaccination. Having good knowledge about the COVID-19 vaccine (AOR = 0.38, 95%CI: 0.22, 0.64, P-value <0.001) was negatively associated with unfavorable attitude towards COVID-19 vaccine, whereas age less than 30 years (AOR = 2.14, 95%CI:1.25,3.67, P-value <0.001), working in a private clinic (AOR = 7.77, 95% CI: 2.19, 27.58, P-value <0.001) and health center (AOR = 2.45, 95%CI: 1.01, 5.92, P-value = 0.045) were positively associated with unfavorable attitude towards COVID-19 vaccine. In general, the attitude and perception of health care professionals toward the COVID-19 vaccine in the study area were unsatisfactory. Knowledge about the COVID-19 vaccine, age of health care workers, and place of work are the factors which affects attitude towards COVID-19 vaccine. Thus, we recommend the media outlets and concerned bodies to work to develop trust among the public by disseminating accurate and consistent information about the vaccine.
35592326 References Immunoglobulin gene heterogeneity reflects the diversity and focus of the humoral immune response towards different infections, enabling inference of B cell development processes. Detailed compositional and lineage analysis of long read IGH repertoire sequencing, combining examples of pandemic, epidemic and endemic viral infections with control and vaccination samples, demonstrates general responses including increased use of IGHV4-39 in both Zaire Ebolavirus (EBOV) and COVID-19 patient cohorts. We also show unique characteristics absent in Respiratory Syncytial Virus or yellow fever vaccine samples: EBOV survivors show unprecedented high levels of class switching events while COVID-19 repertoires from acute disease appear underdeveloped. Despite the high levels of clonal expansion in COVID-19 IgG1 repertoires there is a striking lack of evidence of germinal centre mutation and selection. Given the differences in COVID-19 morbidity and mortality with age, it is also pertinent that we find significant differences in repertoire characteristics between young and old patients. Our data supports the hypothesis that a primary viral challenge can result in a strong but immature humoral response where failures in selection of the repertoire risk off-target effects.
34747367  COVID-19 is caused by SARS-CoV-2 (SC2) and is more prevalent and severe in elderly and patients with comorbid diseases (CM). Because chitinase 3-like-1 (CHI3L1) is induced during aging and CM, the relationships between CHI3L1 and SC2 were investigated. Here, we demonstrate that CHI3L1 is a potent stimulator of the SC2 receptor angiotensin converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) and viral spike protein priming proteases (SPP), that ACE2 and SPP are induced during aging, and that anti-CHI3L1, kasugamycin, and inhibitors of phosphorylation abrogate these ACE2- and SPP-inductive events. Human studies also demonstrate that the levels of circulating CHI3L1 are increased in the elderly and patients with CM, where they correlate with COVID-19 severity. These studies demonstrate that CHI3L1 is a potent stimulator of ACE2 and SPP, that this induction is a major mechanism contributing to the effects of aging during SC2 infection, and that CHI3L1 co-opts the CHI3L1 axis to augment SC2 infection. CHI3L1 plays a critical role in the pathogenesis of and is an attractive therapeutic target in COVID-19.
33793460 References 
35358722  In this study, we aimed to determine the correlation between procalcitonin (PCT) levels and clinical outcomes including in-hospital mortality, ICU length of stay, and hospital length of stay in patients hospitalized with COVID-19. Clinical, laboratory, and demographic data of 223 patients who met inclusion criteria were analyzed. PCT measurements of 0.25 ng/mL and 0.50 ng/mL were used to stratify patients into two mutually exclusive groups Patients with PCT above 0.25 ng/mL on admission had significantly elevated APACHE II scores (9 vs. 8; P = 0.042) and CRP levels (111 mug/mL vs. 79 mug/mL; P = 0.007). A multivariable binary logistic regression model demonstrated no relationship between PCT and mortality (OR = 1.00; 95% Cl: 0.97 to 1.02; P = 0.713). Kaplan-Meier analysis revealed no statistical evidence of a difference between PCT groups and hospital length of stay (P = 0.144 for 0.25 ng/mL, P = 0.368 for 0.50 ng/mL) or intensive care unit length of stay (P = 0.986 for 0.25 ng/mL, P = 0.771 for 0.50 ng/mL). Elevated PCT levels were associated with severity of illness but did not correlate with in-hospital mortality, hospital length of stay, or ICU length of stay.
32328576 References 
34075622 References Table A. Respondent Characteristics Telehealth has many potential advantages during an infectious disease outbreak such as the COVID-19 pandemic, and the COVID-19 pandemic has accelerated the shift to telehealth as a prominent care delivery mode. Not all health care providers and patients are equally ready to take part in the telehealth revolution, which raises concerns for health equity during and after the COVID-19 pandemic. Without proactive efforts to address both patient- and provider-related digital barriers associated with socioeconomic status, the wide-scale implementation of telehealth amid COVID-19 may reinforce disparities in health access in already marginalized and underserved communities. To ensure greater telehealth equity, policy changes should address barriers faced overwhelmingly by marginalized patient populations and those who serve them. The COVID-19 pandemic has catalyzed fundamental shifts across the US health care delivery system, including a rapid transition to telehealth. Telehealth has many potential advantages, including maintaining critical access to care while keeping both patients and providers safe from unnecessary exposure to the coronavirus. However, not all health care providers and patients are equally ready to take part in this digital revolution, which raises concerns for health equity during and after the COVID-19 pandemic. The study analyzed data about small primary care practices' telehealth use and barriers to telehealth use collected from rapid-response surveys administered by the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene's Bureau of Equitable Health Systems and New York University from mid-April through mid-June 2020 as part of the city's efforts to understand how primary care practices were responding to the COVID-19 pandemic following New York State's stay-at-home order on March 22. We focused on small primary care practices because they represent 40% of primary care providers and are disproportionately located in low-income, minority or immigrant areas that were more severely impacted by COVID-19. To examine whether telehealth use and barriers differed based on the socioeconomic characteristics of the communities served by these practices, we used the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Social Vulnerability Index (SVI) to stratify respondents as being in high-SVI or low-SVI areas. We then characterized respondents' telehealth use and barriers to adoption by using means and proportions with 95% confidence intervals. In addition to a primary analysis using pooled data across the five waves of the survey, we performed sensitivity analyses using data from respondents who only took one survey, first wave only, and the last two waves only. While all providers rapidly shifted to telehealth, there were differences based on community characteristics in both the primary mode of telehealth used and the types of barriers experienced by providers. Providers in high-SVI areas were almost twice as likely as providers in low-SVI areas to use telephones as their primary telehealth modality (41.7% vs 23.8%; P <.001). The opposite was true for video, which was used as the primary telehealth modality by 18.7% of providers in high-SVI areas and 33.7% of providers in low-SVI areas (P <0.001). Providers in high-SVI areas also faced more patient-related barriers and fewer provider-related barriers than those in low-SVI areas. Between April and June 2020, telehealth became a prominent mode of primary care delivery in New York City. However, the transition to telehealth did not unfold in the same manner across communities. To ensure greater telehealth equity, policy changes should address barriers faced overwhelmingly by marginalized patient populations and those who serve them.
35380101 References In the fight against severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2), monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) serve as key strategies for the rapid prevention and treatment of COVID-19. However, analysis to fully characterize functional SARS-CoV-2 mAbs is still needed. In this study, by interrogating 1,695 published or patented mAbs of human origin and validated SARS-CoV-2-binding potency, we found a highly preferential usage of IGHV3-53/3-66 germline genes that was then revealed as a distinct selectivity of SARS-CoV-2-induced humoral immunity across other coronaviruses. Moreover, among the rare somatic hypermutations, we identified a novel mutation signature of F27 to I, L, or V with high frequency, which was located in the CDR1 region of the heavy chain among IGHV3-53/3-66-encoded antibodies. This convergent mutation contributed to improving SARS-CoV-2 binding affinity and may advance our knowledge of the humoral immunity to SARS-CoV-2.
32590073 References The current dreadful pandemic of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) is playing havoc with humanity, socio-communal systems and economic reserves worldwide. Certain countries have managed to curtail COVID-19 crisis to some extent, however, a great majority still remains helpless in containing this outbreak. Rapidly evolving disease patterns and complex epidemiology of the COVID-19 necessitate a tailored approach by medical experts in dealing with this devastating outbreak. Similar to other medical disciplines, surgical associations and societies have developed a tailored approach of patients' selection and management plans with improvised endolaparoscopic practice during the COVID-19 pandemic. Non-essential and non-urgent surgical procedures are deferred till this outbreak is abated. Benefits of delaying elective and non-urgent surgery outweighs the risk of performing surgical procedures on patients with asymptomatic or active COVID-19 disease. Laparoendoscopic procedures increase the risk of aerosol exposure, disease transmission and contamination. Limiting the number of operating room personnel, use of disposable instruments, small trocar incisions, negative pressure environment, and setting energy devices at low modes can help reduce disease transmission during laparoendocsopic procedures. This write up sheds lights on the impact of the COVID-19, big data analytics of response of medical personnel in understanding and curtailing the disease process and the consensus guidelines for carrying out laparoscoendoscopic procedures. The COVID-19 pandemic is spreading with escalating morbidity and mortality worldwide. Big data analytics has reflected enormous proliferation of research and publications about COVID-19 during 2020. Surgical practice is rapidly evolving according to the needs analysis and disease burden across regions. Laparoendocsopic surgery should be postponed for non-essential and non-urgent surgical cases. Laparoendoscopic procedures have potentially increased risk of disease transmission by aerosol exposure and contamination. Limit the number of operating room personnel, use of disposable instruments, negative pressure air flow, and electrocautery energy devices at low modes.
32476305  The world is currently experiencing a pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). In Korea, as in other countries, the number of confirmed cases and deaths due to COVID-19 have been rising. This study aimed to calculate the burden of disease due to COVID-19 in Korea. We used data on confirmed cases and deaths due to COVID-19 between January 20 and April 24, 2020 provided by the Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the local governments and the public media to determine disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) by sex and age. Morbidity was estimated directly among the confirmed, cured, and fatal cases. Disability weights were adopted from previous similar causes on the severity of COVID-19 for the years of life lived with disability (YLDs). The years of life lost (YLLs) were calculated using the standard life expectancy from the 2018 life tables for each sex and age. The YLDs were higher in females (155.2) than in males (105.1), but the YLLs were higher in males (1,274.3) than in females (996.4). The total disease burden attributable to COVID-19 in Korea during the study period, was estimated to be 2,531.0 DALYs, and 4.930 DALYs per 100,000 population. The YLDs and the YLLs constituted 10.3% and 89.7% of the total DALYs, respectively. The DALYs per 100,000 population were highest in people aged >= 80 years, followed by those aged 70-79, 60-69, and 50-59 years, but the incidence was the highest in individuals aged 20-29 years. This study provided the estimates of DALYs due to COVID-19 in Korea. Most of the disease burden from COVID-19 was derived from YLL; this indicates that decision-makers should focus and make an effort on reducing fatality for preparing the second wave of COVID-19.
34716614 REFERENCES Revealing the effect of SARS-CoV-2 infection on semen quality is a dynamic priority for many healthcare providers in the field as well as subfertile patients. Therefore, the collective summary in this research approach is still highly needed, especially with the continuous increase in original publications. Here, we provide an up-to-date review and discussion to collectively reveal the effect of SARS-CoV-2 infection on human semen quality. To do this, we reviewed all articles and abstracts published in Scopus and PubMed using the keywords 'SARS-CoV-2' and 'COVID' versus 'sperm' and 'semen'. In summary, it can be revealed that, at both symptomatic and recovery stages of infection, no investigational evidence of SARS-CoV-2 shedding in human semen. Also, the mainstream of the up-to-date published work reveals a negative impact of SARS-CoV-2 infection on semen quality parameters, particularly sperm count and motility. However, long-term post-recovery comparative studies seem very important in this particular setting.
35440094 Abbreviations Authors' contributions Funding Availability of data and materials Declarations Ethics approval and consent to participate Consent for publication Competing interests References Although coronavirus disease 2019 affects mainly the respiratory system, as time passes and our understanding of the disease improves, many nonrespiratory clinical manifestations such as thromboembolic events have been shown to occur with or without respiratory tract involvement. We present the case of a 21-year-old gravid 3, live 1, abortion 1 Iranian woman pregnant with twins in her early first trimester. Her initial chief complaint was headache that gradually increased in intensity. Eventually, cerebral vein thrombosis was confirmed. Although the patient first manifested with neurological involvement, she developed upper respiratory symptoms soon after, and then nasopharyngeal polymerase chain reaction test returned positive. Any neurological complaints in pregnant women during the current coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic should raise suspicion for the presence of significant cerebral thrombotic or ischemic events, even if the patient has no complaint of respiratory tract involvement and/or when an initial nasopharyngeal polymerase chain reaction test is negative.
33071434 References The employment of female workers in Ethiopia's garment industry has changed dramatically due to a sharp drop in demand during the COVID-19 pandemic. In our sample, 41 percent of respondents employed in January 2020 were put on leave or terminated by the time of our survey a few months later. Migration appears to be a major coping mechanism, but many respondents report barriers. Most who have left the city desire to return if possible. Levels of food insecurity are high; rates are higher for those currently still in the city where garment industry jobs are located. Respondents are well informed about COVID-19; false beliefs or myths appear to be extremely uncommon. In a globalized world, pandemics transmit impacts through markets. We document employment changes, coping strategies, and welfare of garment factory workers in Ethiopia's largest industrial park during the early stages of the Coronavirus Disease 2019 pandemic. We field a phone survey of female workers during a two month period in which cases are rapidly rising globally, but not locally. Our data suggest significant changes in employment, high levels of migration away from urban areas to rural areas if women are no longer working, and high levels of food insecurity. These findings compel a research and policy focus on documenting and mitigating the market-reach of pandemics on low-income workers at the margins.
33779211 References Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is a new infectious disease caused by the novel severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). The COVID-19 pandemic has profoundly altered the ways in which members of communities live, learn, work, and play. Similarly, the pandemic has affected the conduct of community-based and community-engaged research, which are essential research approaches to promoting health equity, reducing health disparities, and improving community and population health. In this commentary, we outline nine lessons from HIV prevention, care, and treatment that are particularly relevant to reducing the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. We also identify ten innovative strategies to reduce exposure to SARS-CoV-2 among teams and community members conducting community-based and community-engaged research. Implementation of these strategies will help to ensure these research approaches can safely continue during the pandemic and that communities and populations continue to benefit from research designed to promote equity, reduce disparities, and improve health.
34253291 References Appendix 1 Appendix 2 Appendix 3 Appendix 4 Appendix 5 Appendix 6 Decision letter Vaccination is one of the most effective public health interventions. We investigate the impact of vaccination activities for Haemophilus influenzae type b, hepatitis B, human papillomavirus, Japanese encephalitis, measles, Neisseria meningitidis serogroup A, rotavirus, rubella, Streptococcus pneumoniae, and yellow fever over the years 2000-2030 across 112 countries. Twenty-one mathematical models estimated disease burden using standardised demographic and immunisation data. Impact was attributed to the year of vaccination through vaccine-activity-stratified impact ratios. We estimate 97 (95%CrI[80, 120]) million deaths would be averted due to vaccination activities over 2000-2030, with 50 (95%CrI[41, 62]) million deaths averted by activities between 2000 and 2019. For children under-5 born between 2000 and 2030, we estimate 52 (95%CrI[41, 69]) million more deaths would occur over their lifetimes without vaccination against these diseases. This study represents the largest assessment of vaccine impact before COVID-19-related disruptions and provides motivation for sustaining and improving global vaccination coverage in the future. VIMC is jointly funded by Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF) (BMGF grant number: OPP1157270 / INV-009125). Funding from Gavi is channelled via VIMC to the Consortium's modelling groups (VIMC-funded institutions represented in this paper: Imperial College London, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, Oxford University Clinical Research Unit, Public Health England, Johns Hopkins University, The Pennsylvania State University, Center for Disease Analysis Foundation, Kaiser Permanente Washington, University of Cambridge, University of Notre Dame, Harvard University, Conservatoire National des Arts et Metiers, Emory University, National University of Singapore). Funding from BMGF was used for salaries of the Consortium secretariat (authors represented here: TBH, MJ, XL, SE-L, JT, KW, NMF, KAMG); and channelled via VIMC for travel and subsistence costs of all Consortium members (all authors). We also acknowledge funding from the UK Medical Research Council and Department for International Development, which supported aspects of VIMC's work (MRC grant number: MR/R015600/1). JHH acknowledges funding from National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship; Richard and Peggy Notebaert Premier Fellowship from the University of Notre Dame. BAL acknowledges funding from NIH/NIGMS (grant number R01 GM124280) and NIH/NIAID (grant number R01 AI112970). The Lives Saved Tool (LiST) receives funding support from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. This paper was compiled by all coauthors, including two coauthors from Gavi. Other funders had no role in study design, data collection, data analysis, data interpretation, or writing of the report. All authors had full access to all the data in the study and had final responsibility for the decision to submit for publication.
34274539 References 
33955567 REFERENCES The effectiveness of the BNT162b2 vaccine on preventing the spread of COVID-19 and deaths in nursing homes (NH) is unknown. We used zero-inflated negative binomial mixed effects regressions to model the associations of time since the vaccine clinic ending the week of December 27, 2020 (cohort 1), January 3, 2021 (cohort 2), or January 10, 2021 (cohort 3) controlling for county rate of COVID-19, bed size, urban location, racial and ethnic census, and level of registered nurses with resident cases and deaths of COVID-19 and staff cases of COVID-19. All 2501 NHs who held a vaccine clinic from the first 17 states to initiate clinics as part of the Pharmacy Partnership for Long-Term Care Program. Adjusted Incidence Rate Ratio (IRR) for time in 3, 4, 5, and 6 weeks after the first vaccine clinic for resident cases and deaths of COVID-19 and staff cases of COVID-19. Resident and staff cases trended downward in all three cohorts following the vaccine clinics. Time following the first clinic at 5 and 6 weeks was consistently associated with fewer resident cases (IRR: 0.68 [95% CI: 0.54-0.84], IRR: 0.64 [95% CI: 0.48-0.86], respectively); resident deaths (IRR: 0.59 [95% CI: 0.45-0.77], IRR: 0.45 [95% CI: 0.31-0.65], respectively); and staff cases (IRR: 0.64 [95% CI: 0.56-0.73], IRR: 0.51 [95% CI: 0.42-0.62], respectively). Other factors associated with fewer resident and staff cases included facilities with less than 50 certified beds and high nurse staffing per resident day (>0.987). Contrary to prior research, higher Hispanic non-white resident census was associated with fewer resident cases (IRR: 0.42, 95% CI: 0.31-0.56) and deaths (IRR: 0.18, 95% CI: 0.12-0.27). The BNT162b2 vaccine is associated with decreased spread of SARS-CoV-2 in both residents and staff as well as decreased deaths among residents. See related editorial by Ouslander et al and related articles by Mor et al, Moore et al, and Rudolph et al.
32776524 References 
34812845 References What is the seroprevalence of SARS-CoV-2 antibodies in a convenience sample of children aged 2 to 17 years in Montreal, Canada, enrolled between October 2020 and March 2021? In this cohort study of 1632 participants, the mean baseline seroprevalence of SARS-CoV-2 was 5.8%. Of the 95 participants who were seropositive for SARS-CoV-2 antibodies, 82% were not tested or tested negative, and all experienced either mild or no clinical symptoms. The findings suggest that there was more transmission occurring in children compared with what was being detected, although children experienced few or mild symptoms. This cohort study estimates the seroprevalence of SARS-CoV-2 antibodies in children and teenagers in 4 neighborhoods of Montreal, Canada. Quebec prioritized in-person learning after the first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, with school closures being implemented temporarily in selected schools or in hot-spot areas. Quebec's decision to keep most schools open was controversial, especially in Montreal, which was the epicenter of Canada's first and second waves; therefore, understanding the extent to which children were infected with SARS-CoV-2 provides important information for decisions about school closures. To estimate the seroprevalence of SARS-CoV-2 antibodies in children and teenagers in 4 neighborhoods of Montreal, Canada. This cohort study (the Enfants et COVID-19: Etude de seroprevalence [EnCORE] study) enrolled a convenience sample of children aged 2 to 17 years between October 22, 2020, and March 22, 2021, in Montreal, Canada. Potential exposure to SARS-CoV-2. The main outcome was seroprevalence of SARS-CoV-2 antibodies, collected using dried blood spots (DBSs) and analyzed with a research-based enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Parents also completed an online questionnaire that included questions on self-reported COVID-19 symptoms and tests, along with sociodemographic questions. This study included 1632 participants who provided a DBS sample from 30 day cares, 22 primary schools, and 11 secondary schools. The mean (SD) age of the children who provided a DBS sample was 9.0 (4.4) years; 801 (49%) were female individuals, with 354 participants (22%) from day cares, 725 (44%) from primary schools, and 553 (34%) from secondary schools. Most parents had at least a bachelor's degree (1228 [75%]), and 210 (13%) self-identified as being a racial or ethnic minority. The mean seroprevalence was 5.8% (95% CI, 4.6%-7.0%) but increased over time from 3.2% (95% CI, 0.7%-5.8%) in October to November 2020 to 8.4% (95% CI, 4.4%-12.4%) in March to April 2021. Of the 95 children with positive SARS-CoV-2 antibody results, 78 (82%) were not tested or tested negative with reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) testing, and all experienced mild (49 [52%]) or no clinical symptoms (46 [48%]). The children of parents who self-identified as belonging to a racial and ethnic minority group were more likely to be seropositive compared with children of White parents (adjusted seroprevalence ratio, 1.9; 95% CI, 1.1-2.6). These results provide a benchmark of the seroprevalence status in Canadian children. The findings suggest that there was more transmission occurring in children compared with what was being detected by RT-PCR, although children experienced few or mild symptoms. It will be important to continue monitoring the serological status of children, particularly in the context of new COVID-19 variants of concern and in the absence of mass vaccination campaigns targeting young children.
32762083  Published descriptions of the neuropathological features of COVID-19 patients have been controversial, ranging from only modest or no pathology to severe hypoxic and hemorrhagic phenotypes, thrombotic complications, acute disseminated encephalomyelitis-like changes, and encephalitis and meningitis. Here we describe the neuropathological findings of four COVID-19-positive patients autopsied at the Helsinki University Hospital during the spring of 2020. While three of the patients (age range 63-90) exhibited merely mild to moderate hypoxia-associated changes, one 38-year-old subject with obesity, diabetes (type 2), Parkinson's disease, and a very severe clinical course was found to have severe ischemic injury, abundant microhemorrhages and enlarged perivascular spaces most pronounced in the white matter and deep gray matter. The pattern of ischemic changes suggested a defect in microcirculation. In addition, a few small perivascular white matter lesions, with macrophages engulfing myelin, were found. No signs of encephalitis or meningitis were detected in any of the patients. When conducting RT-PCR and immunohistochemical analyses of brain tissue we could not demonstrate in any of the patients marked injury or presence of SARS-CoV2 in the olfactory epithelium, olfactory bulbs, or brain areas responsible for respiratory control. In conclusion, our small autopsy series demonstrates various hypoxia-associated neuropathological features in COVID-19 patients, but no evidence of neurotropism or meningitis/encephalitis.
35073855 Abbreviations Authors' contributions Funding Availability of data and materials Declarations Ethics approval and consent to participate Consent for publication Competing interests References Bronchiolitis is the most common viral infection of the lower respiratory tract in infants under 2 years of age. The aim of this study was to analyze and compare the seasonal bronchiolitis peaks before and during the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic. Descriptive, prospective, and observational study. Patients with severe bronchiolitis admitted to the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) of a referral tertiary hospital between September 2010 and June 2021 were included. Demographic data were collected. Viral laboratory-confirmation was carried out. Each season was analyzed and compared. The daily average temperature was collected. 1116 patients were recruited, 58.2% of them males. The median age was 49 days. Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) was isolated in 782 cases (70.1%). In April 2021, the first and only case of bronchiolitis caused by SARS-CoV-2 was identified. The pre- and post-pandemic periods were compared. There were statistically significant differences regarding: age, 47 vs. 73 days (p = 0.006), PICU and hospital length of stay (p = 0.024 and p = 0.001, respectively), and etiology (p = 0.031). The peak for bronchiolitis in 2020 was non-existent before week 52. A delayed peak was seen around week 26/2021. The mean temperature during the epidemic peak was 10oC for the years of the last decade and is 23oC for the present season. The COVID-19 pandemic outbreak has led to a clearly observable epidemiological change regarding acute bronchiolitis, which should be studied in detail. The influence of the environmental temperature does not seem to determine the viral circulation. The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12879-022-07041-x.
33489409  In this case report we describe an unusual presentation of severe acute papillary necrosis in a COVID-19-positive patient. An emergency flexible ureteroscopy greatly helped in the establishment of the diagnosis. In the international literature, there is a paucity of intraoperative endoscopic images representing severe renal papillary necrosis. We present a case of severe acute renal papillary necrosis in a 49-year-old south-Asian, COVID-19-positive male patient who needed emergency urological intervention for macroscopic hematuria and urinary retention due to clot formation in the urinary bladder. The patient underwent emergency cystoscopy, clot evacuation, and by rigid and flexible ureteroscopy. The diagnosis was only confirmed in the postoperative period, retrospectively. Finally, the patient fully recovered due to the multidisciplinary management. Diagnosis of rare clinical entities can be sometimes challenging in the everyday routine practice. Having atypical clinical course, the surgeon should be prepared and sometimes must take responsible decisions promptly, even if needed intraoperatively, to manage unexpected findings in order to get the right diagnosis without compromising the patient's safety.
34072087 Author Contributions Funding Institutional Review Board Statement Informed Consent Statement Data Availability Statement Conflicts of Interest Sample Availability References Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is responsible for the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) global pandemic. The first step of viral infection is cell attachment, which is mediated by the binding of the SARS-CoV-2 receptor binding domain (RBD), part of the virus spike protein, to human angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2). Therefore, drug repurposing to discover RBD-ACE2 binding inhibitors may provide a rapid and safe approach for COVID-19 therapy. Here, we describe the development of an in vitro RBD-ACE2 binding assay and its application to identify inhibitors of the interaction of the SARS-CoV-2 RBD to ACE2 by the high-throughput screening of two compound libraries (LOPAC 1280 and DiscoveryProbeTM). Three compounds, heparin sodium, aurintricarboxylic acid (ATA), and ellagic acid, were found to exert an effective binding inhibition, with IC50 values ranging from 0.6 to 5.5 microg/mL. A plaque reduction assay in Vero E6 cells infected with a SARS-CoV-2 surrogate virus confirmed the inhibition efficacy of heparin sodium and ATA. Molecular docking analysis located potential binding sites of these compounds in the RBD. In light of these findings, the screening system described herein can be applied to other drug libraries to discover potent SARS-CoV-2 inhibitors.
35135773 References The Alpha variant (B.1.1.7 lineage) of SARS-CoV-2 emerged and became the dominant circulating variant in the UK in late 2020. Current literature is unclear on whether the Alpha variant is associated with increased severity. We linked clinical data with viral genome sequence data to compare admitted cases between SARS-CoV-2 waves in London and to investigate the association between the Alpha variant and the severity of disease. Clinical, demographic, laboratory and viral sequence data from electronic health record systems were collected for all cases with a positive SARS-CoV-2 RNA test between 13 March 2020 and 17 February 2021 in a multisite London healthcare institution. Multivariate analysis using logistic regression assessed risk factors for severity as defined by hypoxia at admission. There were 5810 SARS-CoV-2 RNA-positive cases of which 2341 were admitted (838 in wave 1 and 1503 in wave 2). Both waves had a temporally aligned rise in nosocomial cases (96 in wave 1 and 137 in wave 2). The Alpha variant was first identified on 15 November 2020 and increased rapidly to comprise 400/472 (85%) of sequenced isolates from admitted cases in wave 2. A multivariate analysis identified risk factors for severity on admission, such as age (OR 1.02, 95% CI 1.01 to 1.03, for every year older; p<0.001), obesity (OR 1.70, 95% CI 1.28 to 2.26; p<0.001) and infection with the Alpha variant (OR 1.68, 95% CI 1.26 to 2.24; p<0.001). Our analysis is the first in hospitalised cohorts to show increased severity of disease associated with the Alpha variant. The number of nosocomial cases was similar in both waves despite the introduction of many infection control interventions before wave 2.
34159155 REFERENCES COVID-19 is a Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS-CoV-2). It threatened the whole world and considered as pandemic recently, emergencies and quarantine has been declared all over the world. Many published reviews and research articles, discussed analysis, symptoms, diagnosis, and possible ways of treatments. However, nowadays, more focus is inclined on recovered patients and the possible events faced by these patients in postrecovery period. Specialists, medical care workers are looking for unmistakable approaches to defend their life later on. It is important to have a full background on their physical and psychological status after their recovery with certain guidelines to follow-up. There is more concern, care for family and society as they might suffer from stress, depression, and stigmatization from society. Awareness programs and counseling should be recommended to bring the recovered patients to their normalcy. Surveys and cohort studies will be helpful for prognosis of the disease as well as to be ready to face the second stage of COVID-19. This article will focus on recovered COVID-19 patients, their complications, precautionary methods, and post care.
35572180 REFERENCES This study examines the relationship between teacher perceived stress during the online period of schooling in the coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic, and their wellbeing, with job crafting as a mediator, The study also examines the role of problem-focused coping as a moderator in the stress-job crafting relationship. A sample of 360 teachers, 347 females, and 13 males, aged 21-63 years answered to an online survey from October to December 2020. Regression analyses were employed to the data. The results show that the conditional indirect effects of stress on wellbeing are statistically significant for low problem-focused coping (beta = -.06, SE = 0.02, p < .001), whereas for high problem-focused coping the effects are not statistically significant (beta = .01, SE = 0.01, p > .05). The effects of stress on wellbeing are mediated by job crafting for teachers who score low on problem-focused coping. During the coronavirus disease 2019 pandemics, only a small number of teachers have used problem-focused coping. For teachers who are low on problem-focused coping, job crafting is one of the ways through which they develop well-being under stress conditions. Using low problem-focused coping was helpful for teachers because they had no means to change the situation and all they could do was adapt to preserve their mental health status.
33627160 Authors' contributions Funding Availability of data and materials Ethics approval and consent to participate Consent to participate Consent for publication Code availability Competing interests References There is a paucity of data concerning the optimal ventilator management in patients with COVID-19 pneumonia; particularly, the optimal levels of positive-end expiratory pressure (PEEP) are unknown. We aimed to investigate the effects of two levels of PEEP on alveolar recruitment in critically ill patients with severe COVID-19 pneumonia. A single-center cohort study was conducted in a 39-bed intensive care unit at a university-affiliated hospital in Genoa, Italy. Chest computed tomography (CT) was performed to quantify aeration at 8 and 16 cmH2O PEEP. The primary endpoint was the amount of alveolar recruitment, defined as the change in the non-aerated compartment at the two PEEP levels on CT scan. Forty-two patients were included in this analysis. Alveolar recruitment was median [interquartile range] 2.7 [0.7-4.5] % of lung weight and was not associated with excess lung weight, PaO2/FiO2 ratio, respiratory system compliance, inflammatory and thrombophilia markers. Patients in the upper quartile of recruitment (recruiters), compared to non-recruiters, had comparable clinical characteristics, lung weight and gas volume. Alveolar recruitment was not different in patients with lower versus higher respiratory system compliance. In a subgroup of 20 patients with available gas exchange data, increasing PEEP decreased respiratory system compliance (median difference, MD - 9 ml/cmH2O, 95% CI from - 12 to - 6 ml/cmH2O, p < 0.001) and the ventilatory ratio (MD - 0.1, 95% CI from - 0.3 to - 0.1, p = 0.003), increased PaO2 with FiO2 = 0.5 (MD 24 mmHg, 95% CI from 12 to 51 mmHg, p < 0.001), but did not change PaO2 with FiO2 = 1.0 (MD 7 mmHg, 95% CI from - 12 to 49 mmHg, p = 0.313). Moreover, alveolar recruitment was not correlated with improvement of oxygenation or venous admixture. In patients with severe COVID-19 pneumonia, higher PEEP resulted in limited alveolar recruitment. These findings suggest limiting PEEP strictly to the values necessary to maintain oxygenation, thus avoiding the use of higher PEEP levels.
34056576 REFERENCES The 2019 coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic has brought unprecedented challenges to the health sector nationwide and internationally. Across all disciplines, unique and novel modes of presentation with substantial morbidity and mortality are being encountered, and growing evidence suggests that psychiatric comorbidity is likely among COVID-19 patients. This article aims to broaden the current discussion on the psychiatric sequalae of COVID-19, which has largely focused on anxiety, and examine the recently documented psychiatric sequelae of COVID-19 infection, the secondary effects of the pandemic on public mental health, and future psychiatric conditions that may arise due to COVID-19. We conducted an in-depth review of the current global psychiatric literature and describe the wide range of psychopathological presentations reported among past COVID-19 patients worldwide and those that are expected to emerge. Current discussions in the psychiatric literature on COVID-19 report anxiety and anxiety disorders as a predominant set of clinical presentations during the pandemic. The impacts of direct COVID-19 infection, associated psychopathological sequelae, and drastic lifestyle changes due to the COVID-19 pandemic in South Africa, are associated with a broad range of psychopathologies and other neuropsychiatric presentations. Pre-existing societal conditions and burdens on the health system in South Africa prompt healthcare providers and public health planners to accordingly prepare for the expected rise in new psychiatric presentations. Greater awareness of the various psychiatric conditions attributed to COVID-19 infection may allow for earlier screening, more effective treatment, and greater positive health outcomes and better prepare health systems to address the growing pandemic in South Africa.
34939428 References With resumption of elective spine surgery services in the UK following the first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, we conducted a multicentre British Association of Spine Surgeons (BASS) collaborative study to examine the complications and deaths due to COVID-19 at the recovery phase of the pandemic. The aim was to analyze the safety of elective spinal surgery during the pandemic. A prospective observational study was conducted from eight spinal centres for the first month of operating following restoration of elective spine surgery in each individual unit. Primary outcome measure was the 30-day postoperative COVID-19 infection rate. Secondary outcomes analyzed were the 30-day mortality rate, surgical adverse events, medical complications, and length of inpatient stay. In all, 257 patients (128 males) with a median age of 54 years (2 to 88) formed the study cohort. The mean number of procedures performed from each unit was 32 (16 to 101), with 118 procedures (46%) done as category three prioritization level. The majority of patients (87%) were low-medium "risk stratification" category and the mean length of hospital stay was 5.2 days. None of the patients were diagnosed with COVID-19 infection, nor was there any mortality related to COVID-19 during the 30-day follow-up period, with 25 patients (10%) having been tested for symptoms. Overall, 32 patients (12%) developed a total of 34 complications, with the majority (19/34) being grade 1 to 2 Clavien-Dindo classification of surgical complications. No patient required postoperative care in an intensive care setting for any unexpected complication. This study shows that safe and effective planned spinal surgical services can be restored avoiding viral transmission, with diligent adherence to national guidelines and COVID-19-secure pathways tailored according to the resources of the individual spinal units. Cite this article: Bone Jt Open 2021;2(12):1096-1101.
33686389 References In order to determine acute cardiac involvement in patients with COVID-19, we quantitatively evaluated tissue characteristics and mechanics by non-invasive cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) in a cohort of patients within the first 10 days of the onset of COVID symptoms. Twenty-five patients with reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction confirmed COVID-19 and at least one marker of cardiac involvement [cardiac symptoms, abnormal electrocardiograph (ECG), or abnormal cardiac biomarkers] and 25 healthy age- and gender-matched control subjects were recruited to the study. Patients were divided into those with elevated (n = 8) or normal TnI (n = 17). There were significant differences in global longitudinal strain among patients who were positive and negative for hs-TnI, and controls [-12.3 (-13.3, -11.5)%, -13.1 (-14.2, -9.8)%, and -15.7 (-18.3, -12.7)%, P = 0.004]. Native myocardial T1 relaxation times in patients with positive and negative hs-TnI manifestation (1169.8 +- 12.9 and 1113.2 +- 31.2 ms) were significantly higher than the normal (1065 +- 57 ms) subjects, respectively (P < 0.001). The extracellular volume (ECV) of patients who were positive and negative for hs-TnI was higher than that of the normal controls [32 (31, 33)%, 29 (27, 30)%, and 26 (24, 27.5)%, P < 0.001]. In our study, quantitative T2 mapping in patients who were positive and negative for hs-TnI [51 (47.9, 52.8) and 48 (47, 49.4) ms] was significantly higher than the normal [42 (41, 45.2) ms] subjects (P < 0.001). In patients with early-stage COVID-19, myocardial oedema, and functional abnormalities are a frequent finding, while irreversible regional injury such as necrosis may be infrequent.
35578593 References Surgeons are required to wear heavy personal protective equipment while delivering cares to patients during the COVID-19 pandemic. We examined the impact of wearing double gloves on surgeons' performance in laparoscopic surgery. Eleven surgeons-in-training were recruited to perform laparoscopic cutting tasks in simulation while wearing none, one pair, and two pairs of surgical gloves. Forces applied to laparoscopic instruments were measured. Wearing gloves prolonged task times (one pair of gloves: 301.6 +- 61.7 s; two pairs of gloves: 295.8 +- 65.3 s) compared with no gloves (241.7 +- 46.9 s; p = 0.043). Wearing double gloves increased cutting errors (20.4 +- 5.1 mm2) compared with wearing one pair of gloves (16.9 +- 5.5 mm2) and no gloves (14.4 +- 4.6 mm2; p = 0.030). Wearing gloves reduced the peak force (one pair of gloves: 2.4 +- 0.7 N; two pairs of gloves: 2.7 +- 0.6 N; no gloves: 3.4 +- 1.4 N; p = 0.049), and the total force (one pair of gloves: 10.1 +- 2.8 N; two pairs of gloves: 10.3 +- 2.6 N; no glove: 12.6 +- 1.9 N; p = 0.048) delivered onto laparoscopic scissors compared with wearing no glove. Combined effects of wearing heavy gloves and using tools reduced touching sensation, which limited the surgeons' confidence in performing surgical tasks. Increasing practice in simulation is suggested to allow surgeons for overcome difficulties brought by personal protective equipment.
35142233 References A primary care patient's decision to undergo seasonal influenza vaccination may have been different during the global COVID-19 pandemic in the 2020 to 2021 season. The purpose of this study is to investigate what affected primary care patients' decisions to undergo seasonal influenza vaccination in the 2020 to 2021 season. Semi-structured interviews were conducted in a primary care clinic in Ibaraki, Japan. We used a purposive sampling strategy to reach individuals aged 20 years or older who underwent influenza vaccination. The transcripts were analyzed using thematic analysis. Twenty-one patients completed the interview. Two main themes emerged: the desire to avoid risks to one's health and being a part a community in coexistence with others. The first theme included desire to avoid influenza and expectations that vaccination will prevent severe disease. The second theme included concerns about the consequences of one's own influenza infection on others in the community and necessity of vaccination based on the surroundings and others. Raising awareness of risk factors such as older age and comorbidities, and the expectations of community members might be effective in promoting influenza vaccination.
34974674 REFERENCES Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), caused by the novel coronavirus, is threatening global health worldwide with unprecedented contagiousness and severity. The best strategy to overcome COVID-19 is a vaccine. Various vaccines are currently being developed, and mass vaccination is in progress. Despite the very encouraging clinical trial results of these vaccines, there is insufficient information on the safety and efficacy of vaccines for inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) patients facing various issues. After reviewing current evidence and international guidelines, the Korean Association for the Study of Intestinal Diseases developed an expert consensus statement on COVID-19 vaccination issues for Korean IBD patients. This expert consensus statement emphasizes that severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 vaccination be strongly recommended for IBD patients, and it is safe for IBD patients receiving immunomodulatory therapy.
34465068 REFERENCES The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has had a tremendous impact on healthcare systems worldwide. Although the most common presentation of COVID-19 is respiratory illness, neurologic manifestations are increasing and the pandemic may have consequential effects on urgent conditions such as acute ischemic stroke. In this document, we describe the current status of neurointervention in Korea affected by COVID-19 based on a nationwide survey and review relevant literature from other countries and professional societies.
34316049 References The COVID-19 pandemic has made the world seem less predictable. Such crises can lead people to feel that others are a threat. Here, we show that the initial phase of the pandemic in 2020 increased individuals' paranoia and rendered their belief updating more erratic. A proactive lockdown rendered people's belief updating less capricious. However, state-mandated mask wearing increased paranoia and induced more erratic behaviour. This was most evident in states where adherence to mask wearing rules was poor but where rule following is typically more common. Computational analyses of participant behaviour suggested that people with higher paranoia expected the task to be more unstable. People who were more paranoid endorsed conspiracies about mask-wearing and potential vaccines, as well as the QAnon conspiracy theory. These beliefs were associated with erratic task behaviour and changed priors. Taken together, we find that real-world uncertainty increases paranoia and influences laboratory task behaviour.
32762346 References 
34594139 References Post COVID-19, differentiated regular management in place of strict lockdowns is more favored as a feasible option for balancing economic resumption and pandemic control. China's transition experience shows that this stage came not easily, during which regional sporadic outbreaks could re-emerge. Actually, it is an ongoing process of identifying loopholes and refining the management. Based on the IRGC risk governance framework, this article analyzes these challenges in community involvement posed by the transition. The systematic examination of the whole risk chain would be conducive to contain the virus spread, lessen the pressure of communities for the battle and enhance future responses for a possible resurgence. Unlike the emergency mode with mass mobilized, during regular control periods, community becomes the critical frontline for suppressing COVID-19 but with limited manpower and resources. Still, it can serve as a transformation platform to motivate atomized residents to take responsibility or contribute. Notably, the health governance of all people never ends. With the increased knowledge of COVID-19, the progress of pandemic control, and the needed adjustments for behavioral responses, different communities should come up with more suitable options instead of rigid management back to the old days.
35043033 References Facing the unstopped surges of COVID-19, an insufficient capacity of diagnostic testing jeopardizes the control of disease spread. Due to a centralized setting and a long turnaround, real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (real-time RT-PCR), the gold standard of viral detection, has fallen short in timely reflecting the epidemic status quo during an urgent outbreak. As such, a rapid screening tool is necessitated to help contain the spread of COVID-19 amid the countries where the vaccine implementations have not been widely deployed. In this work, we propose a saliva-based COVID-19 antigen test using the electrical double layer (EDL)-gated field-effect transistor-based biosensor (BioFET). The detection of SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid (N) protein is validated with limits of detection (LoDs) of 0.34 ng/mL (7.44 pM) and 0.14 ng/mL (2.96 pM) in 1x PBS and artificial saliva, respectively. The specificity is inspected with types of antigens, exhibiting low cross-reactivity among MERS-CoV, Influenza A virus, and Influenza B virus. This portable system is embedded with Bluetooth communication and user-friendly interfaces that are fully compatible with digital health, feasibly leading to an on-site turnaround, an effective management, and a proactive response taken by medical providers and frontline health workers.
34721912  Introduction. Early in the 2020 Coronavirus pandemic stay-at-home guidelines, there were public health orders that elective surgeries be deferred to prioritize hospital beds for critically ill COVID-19 patients. Besides, several reasons led to the postponement of consultations, diagnostic tests, and elective therapeutic procedures. As a result, some women with endometriosis faced chronification of their pain and decreased prospects for pregnancy. The aim of this study was to describe individual responses to minimally invasive complete excision of endometriosis through 40 days of follow-up of women whose endometriosis was considered severe enough to proceed with surgery during the fourth, fifth, and sixth months of constraints imposed by the pandemic. Preventive strategies and safety measures employed to protect patients and staff from acquiring or transmitting Coronavirus infection are presented. Case Presentation. This case series report enrolled 11 consecutive Brazilian women (ages 22 to 47 y) who underwent minimally invasive surgical treatment of endometriosis between June 26 and August 17, 2020. Cases of endometriosis requiring more urgent surgery were promptly identified and considered individually. The strict safety measures were well accepted by patients. No women developed any flu-like or COVID-19-related symptoms (cough, dyspnea, fever, or anosmia) in the 40 days of postoperative follow-up. One of the most praised measures reported by patients was the routine testing of the patient, the person who would accompany her in the hospital, and all medical staff and employees. Discussion. It is feasible to safely perform elective endometriosis surgery in selected cases during a pandemic.
34610907 References 
35222989 References Reviewer response for version 2 Reviewer response for version 1 Reviewer response for version 1 Background: The COVID-19 pandemic has brought about many changes in all sectors of life, especially in the field of education. These changes aim to make the learning process more effective in the pandemic environment. However, it can be challenging, as some students do not give positive responses to these changes, especially those in remote areas. This article aims to identify and report students' perceptions about the effectiveness of online learning during the COVID-19 pandemic in the remote North Tapanuli region of Indonesia. Methods: In this study, data were obtained using an online survey involving 30 students from three levels of education, namely junior high school, senior high school, and college. They are students who the teacher appoints as class administrators; through them, the teacher communicates about everything:learning activities. So compared to his other friends, they know more about the implementation of online learning during the covid 19 pandemic. In addition, schools in remote areas have fewer students than schools in big cities. So we conclude that this research is considered representative with thirty students as the sample. The data gathered from the survey were analyzed using quantitative descriptive methods. Results: Results show that online learning is considered less effective by students in remote areas; this happens because communication networks and infrastructure do not adequately support them to follow online learning. Conclusion: Teachers need to evaluate how to teach as well as re-design models and approaches to be applied in learning. This can be achieved by adjusting to the student's current situation to generate interest and willingness to learn online.
32553562 Reference The newly emerged coronavirus disease 19 (COVID-19), is threatening the world. Olfactory or gustatory dysfunction is reported as one of the symptoms worldwide. As reported so far, different clinical features have been reported according to outbreak sites and gender; most of the patients, who complained of anosmia or hyposmia, were Europeans. We had a fast review for novel articles about COVID-19 infection and olfactory function. Rapid reviews for COVID-19 or other viral infection and olfactory and/or gustatory dysfunctions were done in this review. Up to date, a lot of reports have shown that olfactory dysfunction is related to viral infections but no exact mechanism, clinical course, and definite treatment have been discovered, which is also same in COVID-19. In general, intranasal steroid (INS) and oral steroid for short time help improve the recovery of the olfactory function in case of olfactory dysfunction after virus infection. Considering severe respiratory complications and immunocompromised state of COVID-19, the use of steroid should be limited and cautious because we do not have enough data to support the usage of steroid to treat olfactory dysfunction in the clinical course of COVID-19. In the days of pandemic COVID-19, we should keep in mind that olfactory dysfunctions, even without other upper respiratory infection or otolaryngologic symptoms, might be the early signs of COVID-19.
35128537 REFERENCES Supplemental Digital Content is available in the text. The coronavirus disease (COVID) 2019 pandemic and resultant stay-at-home orders altered caregivers' responsibilities and children's daily environments. We aimed to compare the epidemiology and morbidity of foreign body ingestions (FBIs) during the COVID pandemic and the prior year. We performed a retrospective review of children cared for at our tertiary care children's hospital for FBI from March to July 2019 (pre-COVID) and March to July 2020 (COVID). Cases were identified via a search of all diagnoses of foreign bodies (FBs) in the alimentary tract. Charts were reviewed to determine the types of FBs ingested and the patients' clinical courses. A total of 71 encounters were identified. Thirty ingestions occurred in the pre-COVID cohort and 42 in the COVID cohort. One patient ingested 2 different FBs. There was a significantly higher rate of FBIs per day in May 2020 (COVID) compared with May 2019 (pre-COVID; 0.387 versus 0.161; P = 0.046). The median age at presentation was not significantly different between the two groups (pre-COVID, 63.8 months; COVID, 62.5 months; P = 0.78). FBs were located in the esophagus less frequently in the COVID cohort than in the pre-COVID cohort (P < 0.01). Endoscopies were less frequently performed in the COVID cohort (52.4% versus 70.0%; odds ratio, 0.47; 95% CI, 0.15-1.40). The frequency of FBIs trended higher in the COVID cohort, with significantly more FBIs in May 2020 when compared with May 2019. Patients in the COVID cohort more frequently had FBs located beyond the esophagus, indicating later presentation and a lesser need for urgent endoscopic removal.
33165674 Data availability Compliance with ethical standards Conflict of interest References The purposes of this study are to investigate mid-term chest computed tomography (CT) findings of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pneumonia, assess the rate of complete resolution, and determine the individuals at risk for residual abnormalities. Fifty-two cases of COVID-19 pneumonia with at least two chest CTs and mean 3-month interval between the initial and follow-up CT were enrolled in this retrospective study. Patients were categorized into two groups: complete resolution and residual disease on follow-up CT. Demographic, clinical, laboratory, and therapeutic data as well as initial and follow-up chest CT scans were compared and analyzed. Thirty patients (57.7%) demonstrate complete resolution of pulmonary findings, and 22 patients (42.3%) had residual disease on follow-up CT. The mean time interval between initial and follow-up CT was 91.3 +- 17.2 and 90.6 +- 14.3 days in the complete resolution and residual groups, respectively. The most common radiologic pattern in residual disease was ground-glass opacities (54.5%), followed by mixed ground-glass and subpleural parenchymal bands (31.8%), and pure parenchymal bands (13.7%). Compared to complete resolution group, patients with residual disease had higher CT severity score on initial exam (10.3 +- 5.4 vs. 7.3 +- 4.6, P value = 0.036), longer duration of hospitalization, higher rate of intensive care unit (ICU) admission, more underlying medical conditions, higher initial WBC count, and higher occurrence rate of leukocytosis in the hospitalization time period (all P values < 0.05). Extensive lung involvement on initial CT, ICU admission, long duration of hospitalization, presence of underlying medical conditions, high initial WBC count, and development of leukocytosis during the course of disease are associated with more prevalence of chronic lung sequela of COVID-19.
32873261 Reference 
32693101 References 
32512187 References The public, policy makers, and science communities are subject to many false, uninformed, overly optimistic, premature, or simply ridiculous health claims. The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic and its context is a paramount example for such claims. In this article, we describe why expressing the certainty in evidence to support a decision is critical and why the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) approach matters now, perhaps more than ever and no matter what the specific topic is in relation to COVID-19. We finally also offer suggestions for how it can be used appropriately to support decision-making at global, national, and local level when emergency, urgent or rapid responses are needed. This is an invited commentary to address the objectives above building on examples from the recent COVID-19 pandemic. This includes an iterative discussion of examples and development of guidance. The GRADE approach is a transparent and structured method for assessing the certainty of evidence and when developing recommendations that requires little additional time. We describe why emergency, urgent, or rapid responses do not justify omitting this critical assessment of the evidence. In situations of emergencies and urgencies, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, GRADE can similarly be used to express and convey certainty in intervention effects, test accuracy, risk and prognostic factors, consequences of public health measures, and qualitative bodies of evidence. Assessing and communicating the certainty of evidence during the COVID-19 pandemic is critical. Those offering evidence synthesis or making recommendations should use transparent ratings of the body of evidence supporting a claim regardless of time that is available or needed to provide this response. GRADEing the certainty of the available evidence is more important than ever because of the unprecedented pressure for action and the large number of people affected by decisions. The GRADE approach is a transparent and structured method for assessing the certainty of evidence and when developing recommendations that requires little additional time. In situations of emergencies and urgencies, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, GRADE can similarly be used to express and convey certainty in intervention effects, test accuracy, risk and prognostic factors, consequences of public health measures, and qualitative bodies of evidence. Requirements for emergency, urgency, rapid, and routine GRADE assessment may differ but should transition from one to another.
34268819 REFERENCES 
34430514 References Background Coronavirus disease 2019, the third pandemic of 21st century which has brought the whole world under panic, is caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), a zoonotic beta coronavirus sharing phylogenetic, genomic similarities with SARS virus and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome virus. Specific Concerns Cancer patients are at double the risk than normal patients since these patients are at immunocompromised state. WHO guidelines advice the patients to plan only emergency hospital visits only till the pandemic persists. Should meet patient/visitors in a well-ventilated room or outdoors and maintain at least 2 m distance between the visitor/patients. It also encourages the patient to refill the prescribed medications in well advance and to stay physically active, if possible. Discussion The World Health Organizations' isolate, trace, test, treat policy needs to be followed to protect these high-risk patients from this global pandemic.]
33772419 Authors contribution Funding Declarations Conflict of interest Ethical Approval References Among patients with COVID-19 evaluated in outpatient settings, factors associated with hospitalization remain poorly understood. Multivariable regressions were used to assess sociodemographic and clinical factors associated with increased odds of hospitalization among patients with confirmed COVID-19 between March 18, 2020 through April 25, 2020 at a community-based outpatient clinic in Massachusetts. Older age, BMI >= 25, self-reported dizziness/lightheadedness, temperature >= 99.5 F, tachycardia, and oxygen saturation < 95% were associated with increased odds of hospitalization after adjustment for age, sex, and BMI. There was also an association between speaking Spanish as primary language and increased odds of hospitalization (compared to English, adjusted OR = 2.99 [95% CI 1.39, 6.39]). Speaking Portuguese as primary language was not associated with increased odds of hospitalization (compared to English, adjusted OR = 1.83 [0.78, 4.28]). In addition to several clinical risk factors established among inpatients, our study found that primarily speaking Spanish, but not Portuguese, was a marker of hospitalization risk among a diverse outpatient cohort of patients with COVID-19.
33634042 References The social nature of COVID-19 disease requires that all social capacities, including prevention and socio-economic policies, be used to prevent and control it as much as possible in order to reimburse and compensate the lost income of the affected strata in the form of financial and livelihood assistance.
35280451 Author Contribution Declarations Conflict of Interest References Papers of particular interest, published recently, have been highlighted as: Of importance Of major importance Exposure to trauma accelerates during the adolescence, and due to increased behavioral and psychiatric vulnerability during this developmental period, traumatic events during this time are more likely to cause a lasting impact. In this article, we use three case studies of hospitalized adolescents to illustrate the application of trauma-informed principles of care with this unique population. Adolescents today are caught in the crosshairs of two syndemics:racism and other structural inequities and the COVID-19 pandemic. Increased hospitalizations and mental health diagnoses during the past two years signal toxic levels of stress affecting this group. Trauma-informed care promotes health, healing, and equity. This concept of the "trauma-informed approach" is still novel; through examples and practice, providers can learn to universally apply the trauma-informed care framework to every patient encounter to address the harmful effects of trauma and promote recovery and resilience.
33505949 References Abbreviations Clinical characteristics are essential for the correct diagnosis of diseases. The current review aimed to summarize the global clinical characteristics of the COVID-19 patients systematically and identify their diagnostic challenges to help the medical practitioners properly diagnose and for better management of COVID-19 patients. We conducted a systematic search in PubMed, Web of Science, Scopus, Science Direct, and Google Scholar databases for original articles containing clinical information of COVID-19 published up to 7th May 2020. Two researchers independently searched the databases to extract eligible articles. A total of 34 studies from 8 different countries with 10889 case-patients were included for clinical characteristics. The most common clinical symptoms were cough 59.6, fever 46.9, fatigue 27.8, and dyspnea 20.23%. The prominent laboratory findings were lymphocytopenia 55.9, elevated levels of CRP 61.9, aspartate aminotransferase 53.3, LDH 40.8, ESR 72.99, serum ferritin 63, IL-6 52, and prothrombin time 35.47%, and decreased levels of platelets 17.26, eosinophils 59.0, hemoglobin 29, and albumin 38.4%. CT scan of the chest showed an abnormality in 93.50% cases with bilateral lungs 71.1%, ground-glass opacity 48%, lesion in lungs 78.3%, and enlargement of lymph node 50.7%. Common comorbidities were hypertension, diabetes, obesity, and cardiovascular diseases. The estimated median incubation period was 5.36 days, and the overall case fatality rate was 16.9% (Global case fatality outside China was 22.24%: USA 21.24%, Italy 25.61%, and others 0%; whereas the case fatality inside the Hubei Province of China was found to be 11.71%). Global features on the clinical characteristics of COVID-19 obtained from laboratory tests and CT scan results will provide useful information to the physicians to diagnose the disease and for better management of the patients as well as to address the diagnostic challenges to control the infection.
34817214 REFERENCES Here, we report the genome sequences of five severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) strains that were obtained from symptomatic individuals with travel histories during community surveillance in the Dominican Republic in 2020. These sequences provide a starting point for further genomic studies of gene flow and molecular diversity in the Caribbean nation. Phylogenetic analysis suggests that all genomes correspond to the B.1 variant.
34252379 References 
33619245 Author contributions Data availability Competing interests References 
33644905 REFERENCES The aim of this study was to identify the clinical characteristics of patients diagnosed with COVID-19 and the existing nursing problems based on the Omaha System, and to establish a comprehensive nursing care management plan by determining the nursing interventions and care outcomes. This study used a descriptive cross-sectional design. This study was conducted in a training and research hospital with 25 non-intubated COVID-19 inpatients between 6 April and 13 May 2020 in Turkey. Data were collected using a Socio-demographic and Clinical Characteristics Form, the COVID-19 Response Separate Guidelines and the Omaha System and Nightingale Notes software. Data were analysed using descriptive statistical tests and the chi-square method. Using the Omaha System, it was shown that the patients' most common problems were communicable/infectious condition, respiration, circulation, pain, nutrition, personal care and substance use respectively. The most common signs and symptoms were signs of infection, fever, cough, respiratory distress and pain. The interventions that were performed most frequently to the patients included infection precautions, medication action/side effects, signs/symptoms-physical, dietary management and nursing care targets for intervention. These interventions were applied using the category of teaching, guidance and counselling. A significant improvement was observed in the patients' pre- and post-intervention knowledge, behaviour and status scores. The results showed that the Omaha System provided effective guidelines for diagnosing the problems, planning and implementing appropriate interventions for the COVID-19 patients. Therefore, it is recommended to use the Omaha System in nursing care of COVID-19 patients. This is the first study to identify the nursing problems of COVID-19 patients and to evaluate the outcomes of nursing interventions and care using an international taxonomy along with electronic health record software. The findings of this study can provide evidence-based guidelines addressing the nursing problems, interventions and outcomes of COVID-19 patients.
33626155 References Electronic health (e-health) approaches such as telemedicine, mobile health, virtual healthcare and electronic health records are considered to be effective in increasing access to healthcare services, reducing operational costs and improving the quality of healthcare services during the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) outbreak, a pandemic resulting from the spread of a novel coronavirus discovered in December 2019. In this context, the aim of this study was to identify the most important factors influencing decision making on the implementation of e-health in Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) member states (Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates), which are in the process of digitizing healthcare services. This study reviewed the literature to identify the important factors influencing decision making on e-health. In addition, a questionnaire-based survey was conducted in order to identify the most important criteria to be considered in decision making on e-health. The survey link was forwarded to 978 healthcare practitioners and 42 experts (purposive sampling), from which a final sample of 892 (864 practitioners and 28 experts) was achieved, reflecting a response rate of 87.45%. Of the 44 factors identified under seven themes (strategic, quality, management, technology, function characteristics, economic, sociocultural and demographic factors), 22 factors were identified to be the most important criteria. Findings from this study suggest that decision making in relation to e-health is a complex process that requires consideration of various factors. It was also found that attention should be paid to sociocultural and demographic factors, which may need to be considered in increasing healthcare access during the COVID-19 outbreak.
33225308 REFERENCES Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 cell entry depends on angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 and transmembrane serine protease 2 and is blocked in cell culture by camostat mesylate, a clinically proven protease inhibitor. Whether camostat mesylate is able to lower disease burden in coronavirus disease 2019 sepsis is currently unknown. Retrospective observational case series. Patient treated in ICU of University hospital Gottingen, Germany. Eleven critical ill coronavirus disease 2019 patients with organ failure were treated in ICU. Compassionate use of camostat mesylate (six patients, camostat group) or hydroxychloroquine (five patients, hydroxychloroquine group). Clinical courses were assessed by Sepsis-related Organ Failure Assessment score at days 1, 3, and 8. Further, viral load, oxygenation, and inflammatory markers were determined. Sepsis-related Organ Failure Assessment score was comparable between camostat and hydroxychloroquine groups upon ICU admission. During observation, the Sepsis-related Organ Failure Assessment score decreased in the camostat group but remained elevated in the hydroxychloroquine group. The decline in disease severity in camostat mesylate treated patients was paralleled by a decline in inflammatory markers and improvement of oxygenation. The severity of coronavirus disease 2019 decreased upon camostat mesylate treatment within a period of 8 days and a similar effect was not observed in patients receiving hydroxychloroquine. Camostat mesylate thus warrants further evaluation within randomized clinical trials.
35493416 Funding Declarations Ethics approval Conflict of Interests References Coronavirus-caused diseases are common worldwide and might worsen both human health and the world economy. Most people may instantly encounter coronavirus in their life and may result in pneumonia. Nowadays, the world is fighting against the new coronavirus: COVID-19. The rate of increase is high, and the world got caught the disease unprepared. In most regions of the world, COVID-19 test is not possible due to the absence of the diagnostic kit, even if the kit exists, its false-negative (giving a negative result for a person infected with COVID-19) rate is high. Also, early detection of COVID-19 is crucial to keep its morbidity and mortality rates low. The symptoms of pneumonia are alike, and COVID-19 is no exception. The chest X-ray is the main reference in diagnosing pneumonia. Thus, the need for radiologists has been increased considerably not only to detect COVID-19 but also to identify other abnormalities it caused. Herein, a transfer learning-based multi-class convolutional neural network model was proposed for the automatic detection of pneumonia and also for differentiating non-COVID-19 pneumonia and COVID-19. The model that inputs chest X-ray images is capable of extracting radiographic patterns on chest X-ray images to turn into valuable information and monitor structural differences in the lungs caused by the diseases. The model was developed by two public datasets: Cohen dataset and Kermany dataset. The model achieves an average training accuracy of 0.9886, an average training recall of 0.9829, and an average training precision of 0.9837. Moreover, the average training false-positive and false-negative rates are 0.0085 and 0.0171, respectively. Conversely, the model's test set metrics such as average accuracy, average recall, and average precision are 97.78%, 96.67%, and 96.67%, respectively. According to the simulation results, the proposed model is promising, can quickly and accurately classify chest images, and helps doctors as the second reader in their final decision.
32516844 REFERENCES 
34184314 REFERENCES Whether the combination of ventricular strain with high-sensitivity troponin I (hs-TNI) has an incremental prognostic value in coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) patients has not been evaluated. The study aimed to evaluate the prognostic value of biventricular longitudinal strain and its combination with hs-TNI in COVID-19 patients. A total of 160 COVID-19 patients who underwent both echocardiography and hs-TNI testing were enrolled in our study. COVID-19 patients were divided into two groups (critical and non-critical) according to severity-of-illness. The clinical characteristics, cardiac structure and function were compared between the two groups. The prognostic value of biventricular longitudinal strain and its combination with hs-TNI were evaluated by logistic regression analyses and receiver operating characteristic curves. Left ventricular longitudinal strain (LV LS) and right ventricular free wall longitudinal strain (RVFWLS) were determined by 2D speckle-tracking echocardiography. The LV LS and RVFWLS both were significantly lower in critical patients than non-critical patients (LV LS: -16.6+-2.4 vs -17.9+-3.0, P = .003; RVFWLS :-18.8+-3.6 vs -23.9+-4.4, P<.001). During a median follow-up of 60 days, 23 (14.4%) patients died. The multivariant analysis revealed that LV LS and RVFWLS [Odd ratio (95% confidence interval): 1.533 (1.131-2.079), P = .006; 1.267 (1.036-1.551), P = .021, respectively] were the independent predictors of higher mortality. Further, receiver-operating characteristic analysis revealed that the accuracy for predicting death was greater for the combination of hs-TNI levels with LV LS than separate LV LS (AUC: .91 vs .77, P = .001), and the combination of hs-TNI levels with RVFWLS than RVFWLS alone (AUC: .89 vs .83, P = .041). Our study highlights that the combination of ventricular longitudinal strain with hs-TNI can provide higher accuracy for predicting mortality in COVID-19 patients, which may enhance risk stratification in COVID-19 patients.
34683149 Supplementary Materials Author Contributions Funding Institutional Review Board Statement Informed Consent Statement Data Availability Statement Conflicts of Interest References Background: Early and accurate detection of COVID-19-related findings (such as well-aerated regions, ground-glass opacity, crazy paving and linear opacities, and consolidation in lung computed tomography (CT) scan) is crucial for preventive measures and treatment. However, the visual assessment of lung CT scans is a time-consuming process particularly in case of trivial lesions and requires medical specialists. Method: A recent breakthrough in deep learning methods has boosted the diagnostic capability of computer-aided diagnosis (CAD) systems and further aided health professionals in making effective diagnostic decisions. In this study, we propose a domain-adaptive CAD framework, namely the dilated aggregation-based lightweight network (DAL-Net), for effective recognition of trivial COVID-19 lesions in CT scans. Our network design achieves a fast execution speed (inference time is 43 ms on a single image) with optimal memory consumption (almost 9 MB). To evaluate the performances of the proposed and state-of-the-art models, we considered two publicly accessible datasets, namely COVID-19-CT-Seg (comprising a total of 3520 images of 20 different patients) and MosMed (including a total of 2049 images of 50 different patients). Results: Our method exhibits average area under the curve (AUC) up to 98.84%, 98.47%, and 95.51% for COVID-19-CT-Seg, MosMed, and cross-dataset, respectively, and outperforms various state-of-the-art methods. Conclusions: These results demonstrate that deep learning-based models are an effective tool for building a robust CAD solution based on CT data in response to present disaster of COVID-19.
35142693  Excessive inflammation post-traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI) induces microglial activation, which leads to prolonged neurological dysfunction. However, the mechanism underlying microglial activation-induced neuroinflammation remains poorly understood. Ruxolitinib (RUX), a selective inhibitor of JAK1/2, was recently reported to inhibit inflammatory storms caused by SARS-CoV-2 in the lung. However, its role in disrupting inflammation post-SCI has not been confirmed. In this study, microglia were treated with RUX for 24 hours and then activated with interferon-gamma for 6 hours. The results showed that interferon-gamma-induced phosphorylation of JAK and STAT in microglia was inhibited, and the mRNA expression levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-1beta, interleukin-6, and cell proliferation marker Ki67 were reduced. In further in vivo experiments, a mouse model of spinal cord injury was treated intragastrically with RUX for 3 successive days, and the findings suggest that RUX can inhibit microglial proliferation by inhibiting the interferon-gamma/JAK/STAT pathway. Moreover, microglia treated with RUX centripetally migrated toward injured foci, remaining limited and compacted within the glial scar, which resulted in axon preservation and less demyelination. Moreover, the protein expression levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-1beta, and interleukin-6 were reduced. The neuromotor function of SCI mice also recovered. These findings suggest that RUX can inhibit neuroinflammation through inhibiting the interferon-gamma/JAK/STAT pathway, thereby reducing secondary injury after SCI and producing neuroprotective effects.
32646505 Abbreviations Authors' contributions Funding Availability of data and materials Ethics approval and consent to participate Consent for publication Competing interests References Starting in December 2019, the current pandemic caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) confronts the world with an unprecedented challenge. With no vaccine or drug being currently available to control the pandemic spread, prevention and PCR (Polymerase chain reaction) testing becomes a crucial pillar of medical systems. Aim of the present study was to report on the first results of the measures taken in a large German Department of Radiation Oncology, including PCR testing of asymptomatic cancer patients. Pandemic-adapted hygiene regulations and prevention measures for patients and staff were implemented. A visiting ban on both wards was implemented from the beginning and medical staff and patients were required to wear face masks at all times. The waiting rooms were rearranged to ensure distance between patients of at least 1.5 m. Clinical follow up was mainly done by telephone and all patients had to complete a questionnaire regarding symptoms and contacts with COVID-19 patients before entering our department. Educational documents were created for patients to raise awareness of symptoms and avoidance strategies for interactions with other people. Indications for therapy and fractionation schemes were adapted when possible. In a subsequent step, all new asymptomatic patients were tested via nasopharyngeal swab at our screening station shortly before their simulation CT. All these measures and implementations have been well accepted semiquantitatively measured by the consent received from patients and staff. Regarding the PCR testing, only 1 out of 139 asymptomatic patients of our cohort so far tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, reflecting a prevalence of 0.72% in this cancer patient population. Up to this point no staff members was tested positive. The start of the treatment for the PCR-positive patient was deferred for 2 weeks. Due to the pandemic-adapted implementations, our department seems well prepared during this crisis. The initial screening helps to identify asymptomatic COVID-19 patients in order to protect other patients and our staff from infection and the observed PCR prevalence is in line with comparable studies. A regular PCR testing (e.g. twice a week) of all patients and staff would in principle be desirable but is limited due to testing capacities at present.
34149003 REFERENCES Supplemental Digital Content is available in the text. Several studies have described the clinical features of COVID-19 in solid-organ transplant recipients. However, many have been retrospective or limited to more severe cases (hospitalized) and have not routinely included serial virological sampling (especially in outpatients) and immunologic assessment. Transplant patients diagnosed with COVID-19 based on a respiratory sample PCR were prospectively followed up to 90 d. Patients provided consent for convalescent serum samples and serial nasopharyngeal swabs for SARS-CoV-2 antibody (antinucleoprotein and anti-RBD) and viral load, respectively. In the 161 SOT recipients diagnosed with COVID-19, the spectrum of disease ranged from asymptomatic infection (4.3%) to hospitalization (60.6%), supplemental oxygen requirement (43.1%), mechanical ventilation (22.7%), and death (15.6%). Increasing age (OR, 1.031; 95% CI, 1.001-1.062; P = 0.046) and >=2 comorbid conditions (OR, 3.690; 95% CI, 1.418-9.615; P = 0.007) were associated with the need for supplemental oxygen. Allograft rejection was uncommon (3.7%) despite immunosuppression modification. Antibody response at >=14 d postsymptoms onset was present in 90% (anti-RBD) and 76.7% (anti-NP) with waning of anti-NP titers and stability of anti-RBD over time. Median duration of nasopharyngeal positivity was 10.0 d (IQR, 5.5-18.0) and shedding beyond 30 d was observed in 6.7% of patients. The development of antibody did not have an impact on viral shedding. This study demonstrates the spectrum of COVID-19 illness in transplant patients. Risk factors for severe disease are identified. The majority form antibody by 2 wk with differential stability over time. Prolonged viral shedding was observed in a minority of patients. Reduction of immunosuppression was a safe strategy.
34091005  A large number of COVID-19 patients are in recovery and millions of people are vaccinated COVID-19 vaccines globally daily. This calls for a rapid screening strategy of SARS-CoV-2 protective antibodies generated in rehabilitators and vaccinated populations. Serum samples collected over a follow-up period of 6 months from 306 COVID-19 cases discharged from Wuhan Tongji Hospital were analyzed. Anti-S Abs were detected by colloidal gold immunochromatographic assay (GICA) and neutralizing antibodies (nAbs) were detected by chemiluminescent microparticle immunoassay (CMIA). Most COVID-19 survivors tested positive for anti-S Abs (83.7%) and nAbs (98.0%) 6 months after being discharged from the hospital, and the levels of anti-S Abs in the blood were highly positively correlated with nAbs (r = 0.652, P < 0.0001). The positivity rate of nAbs for patients with anti-S Abs positive was 100%. There is a good agreement between anti-S Abs detected by GICA and nAbs detected by CMIA. It indicates that anti-S Abs detected by GICA may be used as a cheaper screening strategy for detectable SARS-CoV-2 nAbs in COVID-19 convalescent individuals.
34958181 REFERENCES 
35289365 References The overburdening of the healthcare system during the coronavirus disease 19 (COVID-19) pandemic is driving the need to create new tools to improve the management of inter-hospital transport for patients with a severe COVID-19 infection. The aim of this study was to analyse the usefulness of the application of a prioritization score (IHTCOVID-19) for inter-hospital transfer of patients with COVID-19 infection. The study has a quasi-experimental design and was conducted on the Medical Emergency System, the pre-hospital emergency department of the public company belonging to the Autonomous Government of Catalonia that manages urgent healthcare in the region. Patients with a severe COVID-19 infection requiring inter-hospital transport were consecutively included. The pre-intervention period was from 1 to 31 March 2020, and the intervention period with the IHTCOVID-19 score was from 1 to 30 April 2020 (from 8 am to 8 pm). The prioritization score comprises four priority categories, with Priority 0 being the highest and Priority 3 being the lowest. Inter-hospital transfer (IHT) management times (alert-assignment time, resource management time and total central management time) and their variability were evaluated according to whether or not the IHTCOVID-19 score was applied. A total of 344 IHTs were included: 189 (54.9%) in the pre-intervention period and 155 (45.1%) in the post-intervention period. The majority of patients were male and the most frequent age range was between 50 and 70 years. According to the IHTCOVID-19 score, 12 (3.5%) transfers were classified as Priority 0, 66 (19.4%) as Priority 1, 247 (71.8%) as Priority 2 and 19 (5.6%) as Priority 3. Overall, with the application of the IHTCOVID-19 score, there was a significant reduction in total central management time [from 112.4 (inter-quartile range (IQR) 281.3) to 89.8 min (IQR 154.9); P = 0.012]. This significant reduction was observed in Priority 0 patients [286.2 (IQR 218.5) to 42.0 min (IQR 58); P = 0.018] and Priority 1 patients [130.3 (IQR 297.3) to 75.4 min (IQR 91.1); P = 0.034]. After applying the IHTCOVID-19 score, the average time of the process decreased by 22.6 min, and variability was reduced from 618.1 to 324.0 min. The application of the IHTCOVID-19 score in patients with a severe COVID-19 infection reduces IHT management times and variability.
32799739 Appendix 1: Jeffersonian transcription system References The importance of caring for children with complex and serious conditions means that paediatric palliative care must continue during pandemics. The recent pandemic of Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) provides a natural experiment to study health communication during pandemic times. However, it is unknown how communication within consultations might change during pandemics. This study, a sub-study of a larger project, aimed to examine real-world instances of communication in paediatric palliative care consultations prior to and during the COVID-19 pandemic to understand how clinicians and families talk about the pandemic. Paediatric palliative care consultations prior to, during, and immediately following the initial peak of COVID-19 cases in Australia were video recorded and analysed using Conversation Analysis methods. Twenty-five paediatric palliative care consultations (including face-to-face outpatient, telehealth outpatient and inpatient consultations) were video recorded within a public children's hospital in Australia. Participants included 14 health professionals, 15 child patients, 23 adult family members and 5 child siblings. There was a pervasive relevance of both serious and non-serious talk about COVID-19 within the consultations recorded during the pandemic. Topics typical of a standard paediatric palliative care consultation often led to discussion of the pandemic. Clinicians (55%) and parents (45%) initiated talk about the pandemic. Clinicians should not be surprised by the pervasiveness of COVID-19 or other pandemic talk within standard paediatric palliative care consultations. This awareness will enable clinicians to flexibly address family needs and concerns about pandemic-related matters that may impact health and wellbeing.
35542312 References The impact of the severe acute respiratory syndrome-coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) pandemic on expectant mother and their babies extends to many aspects of life. Necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) has been recognized as a life-threatening gastrointestinal inflammatory process in neonates that has high rates of morbidity and mortality. To investigate factors associated with NEC in hospitalized neonates whose mothers were SARS-CoV-2-positive and their relationship to mortality. This observational study was conducted from May 2020 to March 2021. All neonates who were hospitalized, after confirming that the mother was SARS-CoV-2-positive, were included in this study. The confirmation of positive SARS-CoV-2 was determined according to the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay. The neonatal SARS-CoV-2 test was performed on the first day of birth. NEC was established based on a suggestive clinical presentation and abnormal abdominal radiographs. Of the 125 neonates enrolled in this study, there were 5 neonates who developed NEC and only one survived. Significant associated factors with NEC included lower birth weight (p < 0.001), lower gestational age (p < 0.001), positive SARS-CoV-2 PCR results (OR = 15.333; 95% CI = 2.074-113.381, p = 0.007), asphyxia (OR = 13.143; 95% CI = 1.411-122.443, p = 0.024), and mortality (OR = 156.000; 95% CI = 13.157-1849.623; p < 0.001). Mortality was significantly associated with lower gestational age (p = 0.025), cesarean section delivery (p = 0.025), and asphyxia (p = 0.025). Significant associated factors with NEC in neonates born to SARS-CoV-2-positive mothers included positive SARS-CoV-2 PCR results, asphyxia, lower gestational age, and lower birth weight. In addition to caesarean section delivery, these factors were related to mortality in neonates in such conditions.
32354565 Bibliografia Analizar un conjunto de indicadores para comprender la variabilidad de la evolucion y el impacto de la epidemia de COVID-19. Estudio ecologico de paises con mas de 200 casos notificados. Se han analizado variables demograficas, de gasto sanitario y de caracteristicas de los servicios sanitarios como variables explicativas, y las tasas de incidencia, mortalidad y letalidad como variables respuesta. Se ha creado un indice de letalidad relativa. Los datos proceden de organismos internacionales. La magnitud de las asociaciones se ha estimado mediante el coeficiente de correlacion de Spearman. El numero de pruebas y el numero de profesionales de medicina se asocian a una mayor incidencia. La mortalidad y la letalidad no se asocian con variables demograficas, de gasto sanitario ni de los servicios sanitarios. Las diferencias sugieren una subestimacion generalizada de la magnitud de la epidemia. Es necesario mejorar la identificacion de casos y la eficacia de los sistemas de vigilancia epidemiologica.
32688022 References The severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is an emerging infection causing a widely spread pandemic of Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). The current COVID-2019 pandemic is prompting fear of falling sick, dying, helplessness and stigma, urgent and timely understanding of mental health status is needed to help the community. Our investigation designed to survey the general population in Saudi Arabia to assess the degree of psychological impact during the pandemic. During the early stage of the outbreak, we conducted an online-based survey using a snowballing sample technique. The surveys collected data about several aspects of participant sociodemographic, knowledge, concerns, psychological impact, and mental health status. We assessed the psychological impact and mental health status using the Impact of Event Scale-Revised (IES-R), and the Depression, Anxiety, and Stress Scale (DASS-21). Our survey recruited 1160 respondents of the general public of Saudi Arabia. Of them, 23.6% reported moderate or severe psychological impact of the outbreak, 28.3%,24%, and 22.3% reported moderate to severe depressive, anxiety, and stress symptoms, respectively. Females reported IES-R (B: 5.46, 95% CI: 3.61 to 7.31) and DASS subscales B coefficient ranged from 1.65 to 2.63, along with high-school students, working in the medical field, and poor self-reported health status was significantly associated with a high level of IES-R and DASS scales (p < .05). Experiencing breathing difficulty and dizziness showed a stronger association with higher IES-R and DASS subscales than other somatic symptoms (e.g., headache and fever);(p < .001). Respondents who practiced specific preventative measures (e.g., hand washing, social distancing) demonstrated a protective effect against stress, anxiety, and depression symptoms. Social distancing appeared to be protective on stress and anxiety subscales (B: -1.49, 95% CI: -2.79 to -0.19),(B: -1.53, 95% CI: -2.50 to -0.57),respectively; and hand hygiene on depression subscale (B: -2.43, 95% CI: -4.44 to -0.42). Throughout the early stage of the COVID-19 outbreak in Saudi Arabia, the results showed that nearly one-fourth of the sampled general population experienced moderate to severe psychological impact. Following specific precautionary measures appeared to have a protective effect on the individual's mental health. Our findings can be used to construct psychological interventions directed toward vulnerable populations and to implement public mental health strategies in the early stages of the outbreak. There is Limited data about psychological impact during the COVID-19 pandemic in Saudi Arabia Health care workers, females, were associated with higher levels of stress, anxiety, and depression symptoms. Students and those with poor self-reported health status reported higher levels of stress, anxiety, and depression symptoms. Participants with reported mental disorders (10.5%) showed high scores on all DASS and IER-S scales. Preventative measures demonstrated a protective effect against, stress, anxiety, and depression symptoms
33581061 References The scale of the COVID-19 pandemic is a consequence of international trade and globalisation, with the virus spreading along established trade and travel routes. However, the pandemic also affects international trade through reductions in both supply and demand. In this Viewpoint we describe the many implications for health and propose ways to mitigate them. Problems include reduced access to medical supplies (in particular, personal protective equipment and tests), budgetary shortfalls as a result of reduced tariffs and taxes, and a general decline in economic activity:leading, in many cases, to recessions, threats to social safety nets, and to increased precariousness of income, employment, and food security. However, in exceptional cases, the pandemic has also brought some transient benefits, including to the environment. Looking ahead, there will be great pressure to further liberalise rules on trade to encourage economic recovery, but it is essential that trade policy be informed by its many consequences for health to ensure that the benefits are maximised and threats are minimised through active identification and mitigation.
32619319  Covid-19 has resulted in unprecedented global disruption. As this global pandemic persists with no end in sight, we must not ignore its impact on undergraduate medical education. Dermatology undergraduate exposure is variable, limited and often suboptimal. It has been shown that medical students and qualified doctors are not adequately confident in their ability to assess and manage skin conditions, and many feel that their undergraduate dermatology teaching was not satisfactory.
35098033 Declarations Conflict of interest References The severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) pandemic of 2019 forced widespread use of face coverings as a mandatory step towards reducing infection by the virus. The face mask acts as a barrier for transmission of infected aerosols among its user and surrounding people. This has propelled pace of research and development of face masks around the world. This short review is an effort to present advances in materials and designs used for face masks. Details available in scientific literature and company brochures have been accessed and the use of nanomaterials and designs for the new generation of face masks have been discussed. Special attention was given to the face masks based on electrospun nanofiber-based membrane materials due to their nano-sized pores, light weight, and high filtration efficiency; therefore, they are commercially viable and popular among various products available in the market. Incorporation of metal organic framework (MOFs) and graphene have opened avenues to more advanced/multi-functional, reusable, and high capacity adsorption filtration membranes. Rapid prototyping/3-dimensional (3-D) printing techniques have been applied to shorten the time of manufacture of face masks. This review is expected to be very helpful for engineers, scientists, and entrepreneurs working on development of novel face masks required in plenty during this pandemic period.
32618967 REFERENCES Supplemental digital content is available in the text.
35345704 Human Ethics References Esophageal manometry can be used to calculate transpulmonary pressures and optimize ventilator settings accordingly. We present the case of a 31-year-old male patient with ataxia-telangiectasia (Louis-Bar syndrome) and a BMI of 20 kg/m2, admitted to our intensive care unit for coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pneumonia. The patient soon required mechanical ventilation; however, there was very poor respiratory system compliance. Cholecystitis complicated the clinical course, and veno-venous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) was initiated as gas exchange deteriorated. Esophageal manometry was introduced and revealed severely increased intrathoracic pressure and chest wall elastance.
32672061 References During a disease outbreak/pandemic situation such as COVID-19, researchers are in a prime position to identify and develop peptide-based therapies, which could be more rapidly and cost-effectively advanced into a clinical setting. One drawback of natural peptide drugs, however, is their proteolytic instability; peptidomimetics can help to overcome this caveat. In this review, we summarize peptide and peptide-based therapeutics that target one main entry pathway of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), which involves the host angiotensin-converting enzyme-2 (ACE2) receptor and viral spike (S) protein interaction. Furthermore, we discuss the advantages of peptidomimetics and other potential targets that have been studied using peptide-based therapeutics for COVID-19.
34523132  To investigate the extent to which telehealth visits mitigated COVID-19 pandemic-related impacts on in-person outpatient visits among Medicare beneficiaries, including those who are high-cost high-need. High-cost high-need patients were defined as those 65 years or older and with 2 or higher Hierarchical Condition Categories (HCC) scores. A difference-in-difference design was used to estimate the change in outpatient in-person and telehealth utilization for the COVID-19 pandemic cohort compared to the control cohort in the prior year. Medicare patients from an Accountable Care Organization (ACO) were used as the study sample. The pandemic cohort was defined as those enrolled in the ACO in 2019-2020 (N = 21,361). The control cohort was defined as those enrolled in the ACO in 2018-2019 (N = 20,028). The study period was defined as April-September 2020 for the pandemic cohort and the same months in 2019 for the control cohort, with the preceding 12 months used as the baseline periods, respectively. Over 740,000 patient-month records were analyzed using logistic and negative binomial regressions. The models were adjusted for patient-level characteristics, including HCC scores, which reflect the complexity of patient health conditions and risk for future healthcare costs. The total number of outpatient encounters (in-person and telehealth) in both primary and specialty care decreased by 41.5% in April 2020 compared to the pre-pandemic period. Telehealth comprised 78% of all outpatient encounters in April 2020 but declined to 22% by the end of September 2020. Only about 40% of all patients had at least one telehealth encounter between April-September 2020. Compared to the control cohort, the pandemic cohort experienced a monthly average of 113 fewer primary care encounters per 1000 patients (OR: 0.75, 95% CI: [0.73, 0.77]) and 49 fewer specialty care encounters (OR: 0.82, 95% CI: [0.80, 0.85]) over the six-month study period. This represented a decline of 25.6% and 17.3% in primary care and specialty encounters, respectively, among high-cost high-need patients. High-cost high-need patients or those with disabilities were more likely to use telehealth and experienced a lesser reduction in outpatient care utilization than other Medicare beneficiaries (OR: 1.20 and 1.06). Medicare beneficiaries with dual Medicaid coverage, those of non-white race/ethnic groups, and those living in rural/suburban areas were less likely to use telehealth and experienced a greater reduction in total outpatient care (OR: 0.86, 0.96 and 0.90). While there was a substantial significant increase in telehealth use in April 2020, utilization declined significantly during the six-month study period, and did not fully mitigate the decline in in-person outpatient visits resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. While high-cost high-need Medicare patients and those with disabilities were more likely to use telehealth, disparities in telehealth usage and reductions in outpatient care remain among low-income, non-white, and rural Medicare beneficiaries. Older patients insured by Medicare, including those with high-cost high-need or disabilities were able to make use of telehealth services for outpatient visits during the COVID-19 pandemic. Health policies and interventions should target improving telehealth access and delivery for advancing sustainability and equity among Medicare beneficiaries. Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute.
35246082 Abbreviations Authors' contributions Funding Availability of data and materials Declarations Ethics approval and consent to participate Consent for publication Competing interests References Large-scale vaccination is fundamental to combatting COVID-19. In March 2021, the UK's vaccination programme had delivered vaccines to large proportions of older and more vulnerable population groups; however, there was concern that uptake would be lower among young people. This research was designed to elicit the preferences of 18-29-year-olds regarding key delivery characteristics and assess the influence of these on intentions to get vaccinated, to inform planning for this cohort. From 25 March to 2 April 2021, an online sample of 2012 UK adults aged 18-29 years participated in a Discrete Choice Experiment. Participants made six choices, each involving two SMS invitations to book a vaccination appointment and an opt-out. Invitations had four attributes (1 x 5 levels, 3 x 3 levels): delivery mode, appointment timing, proximity, and sender. These were systematically varied according to a d-optimal design. Responses were analysed using a mixed logit model. The main effects logit model revealed a large alternative-specific constant (beta = 1.385, SE = 0.067, p < 0.001), indicating a strong preference for 'opting in' to appointment invitations. Pharmacies were dispreferred to the local vaccination centre (beta = - 0.256, SE = 0.072, p < 0.001), appointments in locations that were 30-45 min travel time from one's premises were dispreferred to locations that were less than 15 min away (beta = - 0.408, SE = 0.054, p < 0.001), and, compared to invitations from the NHS, SMSs forwarded by 'a friend' were dispreferred (beta = - 0.615, SE = 0.056, p < 0.001) but invitations from the General Practitioner were preferred (beta = 0.105, SE = 0.048, p = 0.028). The results indicated that the existing configuration of the UK's vaccination programme was well-placed to deliver vaccines to 18-29-year-olds; however, some adjustments might enhance acceptance. Local pharmacies were not preferred; long travel times were a disincentive but close proximity (0-15 min from one's premises) was not necessary; and either the 'NHS' or 'Your GP' would serve as adequate invitation sources. This research informed COVID-19 policy in the UK, and contributes to a wider body of Discrete Choice Experiment evidence on citizens' preferences, requirements and predicted behaviours regarding COVID-19. The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12889-022-12823-8.
33257418 References 
32631682 References Low-resource countries with fragile healthcare systems lack trained healthcare professionals and specialized resources for COVID-19 patient hospitalization, including mechanical ventilators. Additional socio-economic complications such as civil war and financial crisis in Libya and other low-resource countries further complicate healthcare delivery. A cross-sectional survey evaluating hospital and intensive care unit's capacity and readiness was performed from 16 leading Libyan hospitals in March 2020. In addition, a survey was conducted among 400 doctors who worked in these hospitals to evaluate the status of personal protective equipment. Out of 16 hospitals, the highest hospital capacity was 1000 in-patient beds, while the lowest was 25 beds with a median of 200 (IQR 52-417, range 25-1000) hospital beds. However, a median of only eight (IQR 6-14, range 3-37) available functioning ICU beds were reported in these hospitals. Only 9 (IQR 4.5-14, range 2-20) mechanical ventilators were reported and none of the hospitals had a reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction machine for COVID-19 testing. Moreover, they relied on one of two central laboratories located in major cities. Our PPE survey revealed that 56.7% hospitals lacked PPE and 53% of healthcare workers reported that they did not receive proper PPE training. In addition, 70% reported that they were buying the PPE themselves as hospitals did not provide them. This study provides an alarming overview of the unpreparedness of Libyan hospitals for detecting and treating patients with COVID-19 and limiting the spread of the pandemic. We report the healthcare system preparedness for COVID19 in low resource settings. We provide insight into the health care situation in Libya during the civil war and COVID19 outbreak. Our study provides the infrastructure status of intensive care units in Libya. The low number of personal protective equipment plays a significant role in spreading the infection among healthcare workers. Civil war along with COVID19 pandemic can have catastrophic consequences for the healthcare system in African countries.
33844359 REFERENCES To analyse the relationship between work engagement, sense of coherence and psychological distress levels in Spanish health professionals who were active during the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown. Work engagement and sense of coherence can help professionals to cope with work-related psychological distress due to the harsh conditions of the COVID-19 working environment. Cross-sectional observational study of 1,459 health care professionals. The Utrecht Work Engagement Scale, the Sense of Coherence Scale and Goldberg's General Health Questionnaire were distributed and analysed with descriptive and multiple linear regression methods. High levels of work engagement, especially in the dedication dimension, of sense of coherence, in particular in the meaningfulness dimension, and psychological distress were obtained. Significant correlations (p < .001) were identified between all the variables. Work engagement and sense of coherence correlated positively with each other and both negatively with psychological distress. So, health care professionals, despite presenting psychological distress, perceive their work satisfactorily and positively despite the severity of the situation and the harsh conditions. Sense of coherence and work engagement are protective factors against psychological distress. Preventive measures for professionals should go through the dimensionalization of the problem and the adaptation of practical measures for daily management.
33824264 References In addition to sociodemographic and COVID-19- related factors, the needs of school support, including material, psychological and information support, have seldom been discussed as factors influencing anxiety and depression among college students during the COVID-19 pandemic. In this cross-sectional study, 3351 college students from China were surveyed through questionnaires about their sociodemographic and COVID-19 characteristics, the needs of school support, and their experiences with anxiety and depression. Anxiety and depression were reported by 6.88% and 10.50% of students, respectively. Married, higher education, non-medical, and urban students had significantly higher risks of anxiety or depression. Additionally, symptoms such as cough and fever, especially when following a possible contact with suspected individuals, quarantine history of a personal contact, going out 1-3 times a week, not wearing a mask, and spending 2-3 hours browsing COVID-19-related information were significantly associated with the occurrence of anxiety or depression. Those who used methods to regulate their emotional state, used a psychological hotline, and who had visited a psychiatrist showed higher anxiety or depression. Those who used online curricula and books, used preventive methods for COVID-19, and who had real-time information about the epidemic situation of the school showed lower anxiety and depression. In addition to sociodemographic and COVID-19-related aspects, students' needs for psychological assistance and information from schools were also associated with anxiety and depression among college students.
34597334 References Decision Letter 0 Author response to Decision Letter 0 Decision Letter 1 Author response to Decision Letter 1 Decision Letter 2 Acceptance letter This confirmatory research investigates the influence of risk framing of COVID-19 on support for restrictive government policy based on two web survey experiments in Russia. Using 2x2 factorial design, we estimated two main effects-factors of risk severity (low vs. high) and object at risk (individual losses vs. losses to others). First, focusing on higher risks had a positive effect on support for the government's restrictive policy. Second, focusing on the losses for others did not produce stronger support for the restrictive policy compared to focusing on personal losses. However, we found a positive moderation effect of such prosocial values as universalism and benevolence. We found that those with prosocial values had a stronger positive effect in the "losses for others" condition and were more willing to support government restrictive policy when others were included. The effects found in our experimental study reveal both positive and negative aspects in risk communication during the pandemic, which may have a great and long-term impact on trust, attitudes, and behavior.
34502799 Author Contributions Funding Institutional Review Board Statement Informed Consent Statement Data Availability Statement Conflicts of Interest References Social distancing protocols have been highly recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO) to curb the spread of COVID-19. However, one major challenge to enforcing social distancing in public areas is how to perceive people in three dimensions. This paper proposes an innovative pedestrian 3D localization method using monocular images combined with terrestrial point clouds. In the proposed approach, camera calibration is achieved based on the correspondences between 2D image points and 3D world points. The vertical coordinates of the ground plane where pedestrians stand are extracted from the point clouds. Then, using the assumption that the pedestrian is always perpendicular to the ground, the 3D coordinates of the pedestrian's feet and head are calculated iteratively using collinear equations. This allows the three-dimensional localization and height determination of pedestrians using monocular cameras, which are widely distributed in many major cities. The performance of the proposed method was evaluated using two different datasets. Experimental results show that the pedestrian localization error of the proposed approach was less than one meter within tens of meters and performed better than other localization techniques. The proposed approach uses simple and efficient calculations, obtains accurate location, and can be used to implement social distancing rules. Moreover, since the proposed approach also generates accurate height values, exclusionary schemes to social distancing protocols, particularly the parent-child exemption, can be introduced in the framework.
35046607 Author contributions Peer review information Data availability Code availability Competing interests References Nitrogen dioxide (NO2) is an important contributor to air pollution and can adversely affect human health. A decrease in NO2 concentrations has been reported as a result of lockdown measures to reduce the spread of COVID-19. Questions remain, however, regarding the relationship of satellite-derived atmospheric column NO2 data with health-relevant ambient ground-level concentrations, and the representativeness of limited ground-based monitoring data for global assessment. Here we derive spatially resolved, global ground-level NO2 concentrations from NO2 column densities observed by the TROPOMI satellite instrument at sufficiently fine resolution (approximately one kilometre) to allow assessment of individual cities during COVID-19 lockdowns in 2020 compared to 2019. We apply these estimates to quantify NO2 changes in more than 200 cities, including 65 cities without available ground monitoring, largely in lower-income regions. Mean country-level population-weighted NO2 concentrations are 29% +- 3% lower in countries with strict lockdown conditions than in those without. Relative to long-term trends, NO2 decreases during COVID-19 lockdowns exceed recent Ozone Monitoring Instrument (OMI)-derived year-to-year decreases from emission controls, comparable to 15 +- 4 years of reductions globally. Our case studies indicate that the sensitivity of NO2 to lockdowns varies by country and emissions sector, demonstrating the critical need for spatially resolved observational information provided by these satellite-derived surface concentration estimates. The satellite instrument TROPOMI is used to assess ambient NO2 levels at approximately one-kilometre resolution across 215 cities worldwide during COVID-19 lockdowns, finding about 30% lower NO2 concentrations in countries with strict lockdowns.
35128648 REFERENCES Biomarkers are used for diagnosis, risk stratification and medical decisions. Copeptin and mid-regional proadrenomedullin (MR-proADM) are markers of stress and endothelial function, respectively, which have been studied in pneumonia, sepsis and septic shock. This study aimed to assess whether copeptin and MR-proADM could predict coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in-hospital outcomes, that is multi-system complications, length of stay and mortality. Copeptin and MR-proADM were assessed at admission in 116 patients hospitalized with COVID-19. Data were retrospectively extracted from an online database. The primary endpoint was in-hospital mortality. The secondary endpoints were in-hospital complications, the composite outcome 'death, or admission to intensive care unit, or in-hospital complications', and length of stay. The predictive power was expressed as area under the receiver operator characteristic curve (AUROC). Copeptin was increased in non-survivors (median 29.7 [interquartile range 13.0-106.2] pmol/L) compared to survivors (10.9 [5.9-25.3] pmol/L, p < 0.01). The AUROC for mortality was 0.71, with a hazard ratio of 3.67 (p < 0.01) for copeptin values > 25.3 pmol/L. MR-proADM differentiated survivors (0.8 [0.6-1.1] nmol/L) from non-survivors (1.5 [1.1-2.8] nmol/L, p < 0.001) and yielded a AUROC of 0.79 and a hazard ratio of 7.02 (p < 0.001) for MR-proADM values > 1.0 nmol/L. Copeptin and MR-proADM predicted sepsis (AUROC 0.95 and 0.96 respectively), acute kidney injury (0.87 and 0.90), the composite outcome (0.69 and 0.75) and length of stay (r = 0.42, p < 0.001, and r = 0.46, p < 0.001). Admission MR-proADM and copeptin may be implemented for early risk stratification in COVID-19-hospitalized patients to help identify those eligible for closer monitoring and care intensification.
34608773 References Adequate immune response to vaccination remains a challenge in patients after solid organ transplantation. We report a case of a 61-year-old male patient who received a left ventricular assist device as a bridge to transplant therapy. Three months before transplantation, he suffered mild SARS-CoV-2 infection and was successfully discharged thereafter. Eight days before his successful heart transplantation, he received mRNA BNT 162b2 vaccination. Immediately after transplantation, we detected sufficient rise of nucleocapsid and spike antibodies despite immune suppression therapy. We suspect potential booster effects of the previous SARS-CoV-2 infection giving rise to adequate immune response following single vaccination.
34648525 References Decision Letter 0 Author response to Decision Letter 0 Decision Letter 1 Author response to Decision Letter 1 Decision Letter 2 Acceptance letter The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic is causing significant morbidity and mortality across the US. In this ecological study, we identified county-level variables associated with the COVID-19 case-fatality rate (CFR) using publicly available datasets and a negative binomial generalized linear model. Variables associated with decreased CFR included a greater number of hospitals per 10,000 people, banning religious gatherings, a higher percentage of people living in mobile homes, and a higher percentage of uninsured people. Variables associated with increased CFR included a higher percentage of the population over age 65, a higher percentage of Black or African Americans, a higher asthma prevalence, and a greater number of hospitals in a county. By identifying factors that are associated with COVID-19 CFR in US counties, we hope to help officials target public health interventions and healthcare resources to locations that are at increased risk of COVID-19 fatalities.
32294667 REFERENCES The rapid increase in clinical cases of the new coronavirus disease, COVID-19, suggests high transmissibility. However, the estimates of the basic reproductive number reported in the literature vary widely. Considering this, we drew the function of contact-rate reduction required to control the transmission from both detectable and undetectable sources. Based on this, we offer a set of recommendations for symptomatic and asymptomatic populations during the current pandemic. Understanding the dynamics of transmission is essential to support government decisions and improve the community's adherence to preventive measures.
34072500 Supplementary Materials Author Contributions Funding Institutional Review Board Statement Informed Consent Statement Data Availability Statement Conflicts of Interest Appendix A. Members of IADS-SCORE Consortium References Background: Acceleration of mass vaccination strategies is the only pathway to overcome the COVID-19 pandemic. Healthcare professionals and students have a key role in shaping public opinion about vaccines. This study aimed to evaluate the attitudes of dental students globally towards COVID-19 vaccines and explore the potential drivers for students' acceptance levels. Methods: A global cross-sectional study was carried out in February 2021 using an online questionnaire. The study was liaised by the scientific committee of the International Association of Dental Students (IADS), and data were collected through the national and local coordinators of IADS member organizations. The dependent variable was the willingness to take the COVID-19 vaccine, and the independent variables included demographic characteristics, COVID-19-related experience, and the drivers of COVID-19 vaccine-related attitude suggested by the WHO SAGE. Results: A total of 6639 students from 22 countries, representing all world regions, responded to the questionnaire properly. Their mean age was 22.1 +- 2.8 (17-40) years, and the majority were females (70.5%), in clinical years (66.8%), and from upper-middle-income economies (45.7%). In general, 22.5% of dental students worldwide were hesitant, and 13.9% rejected COVID-19 vaccines. The students in low- and lower-middle-income (LLMI) economies had significantly higher levels of vaccine hesitancy compared to their peers in upper-middle- and high-income (UMHI) economies (30.4% vs. 19.8%; p < 0.01). Conclusions: The global acceptance level of dental students for COVID-19 vaccines was suboptimal, and their worrisome level of vaccine hesitancy was influenced by the socioeconomic context where the dental students live and study. The media and social media, public figures, insufficient knowledge about vaccines, and mistrust of governments and the pharmaceutical industry were barriers to vaccination. The findings of this study call for further implementation of epidemiology (infectious diseases) education within undergraduate dental curricula.
35583298 References High educational debt is prevalent among resident physicians and correlates with adverse well-being outcomes, including symptoms of stress and burnout. Residents also report low financial literacy levels, affecting financial well-being. Understanding resident viewpoints toward financial well-being initiatives is crucial to develop targeted resident financial well-being programs. This study aims to examine residents' experiences financing their medical education and how these experiences influence well-being and attitudes toward financial education in residency. We recruited residents from a Southern California health system with residency programs in Family Medicine, Internal Medicine, General Surgery, Orthopaedic Surgery, and Psychiatry. We contacted residents by email and text message to participate in semi-structured interviews. We conducted interviews from October 2020 to March 2021 and analyzed 59 resident interviews using reflexive thematic analysis. Among residents, 76% (45/59) had >= $200,000 in student loans. Residents perceived mounting medical education debt as unfairly burdensome for trainees engaged in socially beneficial work, leaving residents feeling undervalued - a feeling heightened by the stressors of the COVID-19 pandemic - and hampering well-being. Compartmentalizing debt attenuated financial stressors but often made financial education seem less pressing. A subset of residents described how financial planning restored some agency and enhanced well-being, noting that protected didactic time for financial education was crucial. Resident interviews provide practical guidance regarding designing financial education sessions. Desired education included managing debt, retirement planning, and the business of medicine. How residents framed educational debt and their degree of financial literacy impacted their well-being and sense of agency. Residents proposed that residency programs can aid in stress mitigation by providing residents with skills to help manage debt and plan for retirement. To reduce clinician indebtedness, this approach needs to occur in tandem with systemic changes to financing medical education.
32246972 References 
33669805 Author Contributions Funding Institutional Review Board Statement Informed Consent Statement Data Availability Statement Conflicts of Interest References The common trait among the betacoronaviruses that emerged during the past two decades (the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus:SARS-CoV, the Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus:MERS-CoV, and the recent SARS coronavirus 2:SARS-CoV-2) is their probable animal origin, all deriving from viruses present in bat species. Bats have arisen the attention of the scientific community as reservoir of emerging viruses, given their wide geographical distribution, their biological diversity (around 1400 species, 21 different families and over 200 genera), and their peculiar ecological and physiological characteristics which seem to facilitate them in harbouring a high viral diversity. Several human activities may enable the viral spill-over from bats to humans, such as deforestation, land-use changes, increased livestock grazing or intensive production of vegetal cultures. In addition, the globalization of trade and high global human mobility allow these viruses to be disseminated in few hours in many parts of the World. In order to avoid the emergence of new pandemic threats in the future we need to substantially change our global models of social and economic development, posing the conservation of biodiversity and the preservation of natural ecosystems as a pillar for the protection of global human health.
34126613 References Current evidence from the COVID-19 pandemic suggests that neonatal SARS-coronavirus-2 infections usually have a mild course. Data on how maternal infection during pregnancy affects fetal development are scarce. We present the unique case of a moderate preterm infant with intracranial bleeding and periventricular leukomalacia as a potential consequence of post-COVID-19 hyperinflammation during pregnancy.
33853700 References In this study, we compared the risk of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) between clinical and nonclinical healthcare workers (HCWs) while adjusting for home ZIP codes. Clinical HCWs did not have a higher risk of COVID-19, but living in higher-risk ZIP codes was associated with increased infection rates. However, environmental services workers showed increased risk of COVID-19.
34262564 References A significant proportion of COVID-19 patients will progress to critical illness requiring invasive mechanical ventilation. This accentuates the need for a therapy that can reduce the severity of COVID-19. Clinical trials have shown the effectiveness of remdesivir in shortening recovery time and decreasing progression to respiratory failure and mechanical ventilation. However, some studies have highlighted its lack of efficacy in patients on high-flow oxygen and mechanical ventilation. This study uncovers some underlying immune response differences between responders and non-responders to remdesivir treatment. Immunological analyses revealed an upregulation of tissue repair factors BDNF, PDGF-BB and PIGF-1, as well as an increase in ratio of Th2-associated cytokine IL-4 to Th1-associated cytokine IFN-gamma. Serological profiling of IgG subclasses corroborated this observation, with significantly higher magnitude of increase in Th2-associated IgG2 and IgG4 responses. These findings help to identify the mechanisms of immune regulation accompanying successful remdesivir treatment in severe COVID-19 patients.
34370935 REFERENCES This study explored changes in individuals' behavior in response to social distancing (SD) levels and the "no gatherings of more than 5 people" (NGM5) rule in Korea during the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic. Using survey data from the COVID-19 Behavior Tracker, exploratory factor analysis extracted 3 preventive factors: maintenance of personal hygiene, avoiding going out, and avoiding meeting people. Each factor was used as a dependent variable. The chi-square test was used to compare differences in distributions between categorical variables, while binary logistic regression was performed to identify factors associated with high compliance with measures to prevent transmission. In men, all 3 factors were significantly associated with lower compliance. Younger age groups were associated with lower compliance with maintenance of personal hygiene and avoiding meeting people. Employment status was significantly associated with avoiding going out and avoiding meeting people. Residence in the capital area was significantly associated with higher compliance with personal hygiene and avoiding venturing out. Increasing SD levels were associated with personal hygiene, avoiding going out, and avoiding meeting people. The NGM5 policy was not significantly associated with compliance. SD levels, gender, age, employment status, and region had explanatory power for compliance with non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs). Strengthening social campaigns to inspire voluntary compliance with NPIs, especially focused on men, younger people, full-time workers, and residents of the capital area is recommended. Simultaneously, efforts need to be made to segment SD measures into substrategies with detailed guidance at each level.
32301809 REFERENCES 
34251568 Authors' contributions Declarations Competing interests References 
35255100 References SARS-CoV-2 attaches to angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) to gain entry into cells after which the spike protein is cleaved by the transmembrane serine protease 2 (TMPRSS2) to facilitate viral-host membrane fusion. ACE2 and TMPRSS2 expression profiles have been analyzed at the genomic, transcriptomic, and single-cell RNAseq levels. However, transcriptomic data and actual protein validation convey conflicting information regarding the distribution of the biologically relevant protein receptor in whole tissues. To describe the organ-level architecture of receptor expression, related to the ability of ACE2 and TMPRSS2 to mediate infectivity, we performed a volumetric analysis of whole Syrian hamster lung lobes. Lung tissue of infected and control animals was stained using antibodies against ACE2 and TMPRSS2, combined with SARS-CoV-2 nucleoprotein staining. This was followed by light-sheet microscopy imaging to visualize their expression and related infection patterns. The data demonstrate that infection is restricted to sites containing both ACE2 and TMPRSS2, the latter is expressed in the primary and secondary bronchi whereas ACE2 is predominantly observed in the bronchioles and alveoli. Conversely, infection completely overlaps where ACE2 and TMPRSS2 co-localize in the tertiary bronchi, bronchioles, and alveoli. The ongoing COVID19 pandemic necessitates additional tools to study SARS-CoV infection dynamics. This increases our understanding of where these viruses cause infections in the lung, and how essential different receptor molecules are. Here we applied tissue optical clearing and 3D immunofluorescence of whole organs from our best animal model, the Syrian hamster. We describe the organ-level architecture of receptor expression profiles, to visualize how their concerted action mediates SARS-CoV-2 infection patterns.
34112877 Author contributions Code availability Competing interests References The novel SARS-CoV-2 virus emerged in December 2019 and has few effective treatments. We applied a computational drug repositioning pipeline to SARS-CoV-2 differential gene expression signatures derived from publicly available data. We utilized three independent published studies to acquire or generate lists of differentially expressed genes between control and SARS-CoV-2-infected samples. Using a rank-based pattern matching strategy based on the Kolmogorov-Smirnov Statistic, the signatures were queried against drug profiles from Connectivity Map (CMap). We validated 16 of our top predicted hits in live SARS-CoV-2 antiviral assays in either Calu-3 or 293T-ACE2 cells. Validation experiments in human cell lines showed that 11 of the 16 compounds tested to date (including clofazimine, haloperidol and others) had measurable antiviral activity against SARS-CoV-2. These initial results are encouraging as we continue to work towards a further analysis of these predicted drugs as potential therapeutics for the treatment of COVID-19.
32179701 Supplementary Materials References and Notes The virus causing coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has now become pandemic. How has it managed to spread from China to all around the world within 3 to 4 months? Li et al. used multiple sources to infer the proportion of early infections that went undetected and their contribution to virus spread. The researchers combined data from Tencent, one of the world's largest social media and technology companies, with a networked dynamic metapopulation model and Bayesian inference to analyze early spread within China. They estimate that ~86% of cases were undocumented before travel restrictions were put in place. Before travel restriction and personal isolation were implemented, the transmission rate of undocumented infections was a little more than half that of the known cases. However, because of their greater numbers, undocumented infections were the source for ~80% of the documented cases. Immediately after travel restrictions were imposed, ~65% of cases were documented. These findings help to explain the lightning-fast spread of this virus around the world. Science, this issue p. 489 Prior to travel restrictions, most SARS-CoV-2 infections went undocumented and substantially contributed to global virus spread. Estimation of the prevalence and contagiousness of undocumented novel coronavirus [severe acute respiratory syndrome-coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2)] infections is critical for understanding the overall prevalence and pandemic potential of this disease. Here, we use observations of reported infection within China, in conjunction with mobility data, a networked dynamic metapopulation model, and Bayesian inference, to infer critical epidemiological characteristics associated with SARS-CoV-2, including the fraction of undocumented infections and their contagiousness. We estimate that 86% of all infections were undocumented [95% credible interval (CI): 82-90%] before the 23 January 2020 travel restrictions. The transmission rate of undocumented infections per person was 55% the transmission rate of documented infections (95% CI: 46-62%), yet, because of their greater numbers, undocumented infections were the source of 79% of the documented cases. These findings explain the rapid geographic spread of SARS-CoV-2 and indicate that containment of this virus will be particularly challenging.
33551798 References The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has raised concerns about the risk of SARS-CoV-2 infection in patients with Crohn's disease (CD) and patients with ulcerative colitis (UC) taking immunosuppressants or biologics. We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis to assess the risk of respiratory infections in patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) treated with vedolizumab. We searched PubMed, EMBASE and Scopus to identify randomized controlled trials (RCT) comparing vedolizumab to placebo in patients with IBD. Outcomes were the rate of respiratory tract infections (RTI), upper respiratory tract infections (URTI) and lower respiratory tract infections (LRTI) among patients receiving vedolizumab as compared with placebo. Pooled rates were reported as Odds Ratios (OR) with 95% Confidence Interval (CI). Eight RCT involving 3,287 patients (1873 CD and 1415 UC) were analyzed; 2,493 patients received vedolizumab and 794 received placebo. The rates of RTI and URTI were statistically higher in vedolizumab-treated patients compared to placebo [OR = 1.63; 95% CI (1.07-2.49); OR = 1.64 95% CI (1.07-2.53) respectively]. UC patients, but not CD patients, receiving vedolizumab had a higher risk to develop RTI and URTI [OR = 1.98; 95% CI (1.41-2.77); OR = 2.02; 95% CI (1.42-2.87)] compared to placebo-treated patients. The number of LRTI was small in both treatment groups. Data confirm the good safety profile of vedolizumab even though RTI were more frequent in patients receiving vedolizumab and the risk of URTIs was significantly higher in patients with UC.
34670589 Abbreviations Authors' contributions Funding Availability of data and materials Declarations Ethics approval and consent to participate Consent for publication Competing interests References Authors' response letter 
33363440 References Extensive testing of populations against COVID-19 has been suggested as a game-changer quest to control the spread of this contagious disease and to avoid further disruption in our social, healthcare and economical systems. Nonetheless, testing millions of people for a new virus brings about quite a few challenges. The development of effective tests for the new coronavirus has become a worldwide task that relies on recent discoveries and lessons learned from past outbreaks. In this work, we review the most recent publications on microfluidics devices for the detection of viruses. The topics of discussion include different detection approaches, methods of signalling and fabrication techniques. Besides the miniaturization of traditional benchtop detection assays, approaches such as electrochemical analyses, field-effect transistors and resistive pulse sensors are considered. For emergency fabrication of quick test kits, the local capabilities must be evaluated, and the joint work of universities, industries, and governments seems to be an unequivocal necessity.
33660134 Author contribution Funding Data availability Declarations Ethics approval and consent to participate Consent for publication Conflict of interest References ELISA and chemiluminescence serological assays for COVID-19 are currently incorporating only one or two SARS-CoV-2 antigens. We developed an automated Western immunoblotting as a complementary serologic assay for COVID-19. The JessTM Simple Western system, an automated capillary-based assay, was used, incorporating an inactivated SARS-CoV-2 lineage 20a strain as the source of antigen, and total immunoglobulins (IgG, IgM, IgA) detection. In total, 602 sera were tested including 223 from RT-PCR-confirmed COVID-19 patients, 76 from patients diagnosed with seasonal HCoVs and 303 from coronavirus-negative control sera. We also compared this assay with the EUROIMMUN SARS-CoV-2 IgG ELISA kit. Among 223 sera obtained from RT-PCR-confirmed COVID-19 patients, 180/223 (81%) exhibited reactivity against the nucleocapsid and 70/223 (31%) against the spike protein. Nucleocapsid reactivity was further detected in 9/76 (14%) samples collected from patients diagnosed with seasonal HCoVs and in 15/303 (5%) coronavirus-negative control samples. In the subset of sera collected more than 2 weeks after the onset of symptoms, the sensitivity was 94% and the specificity 93%, the latter value probably reflecting cross-reactivity of SARS-CoV-2 with other coronaviruses. The automated Western immunoblotting presented a substantial agreement (90%) with the compared ELISA (Cohen's Kappa=0.64). Automated Western immunoblotting may be used as a second line test to monitor exposure of people to HCoVs including SARS-CoV-2. The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s10096-021-04203-8.
34584327 References In France, the COVID-19 pandemic and ensuing lockdown measures have created unprecedented circumstances that increase stress and anxiety, thus leading individuals experiencing home confinement to adopt various coping strategies that contribute to building resilience. Given the novelty and recency of the COVID-19 lockdown, factors of coping and resilience in this specific context of home confinement remain undefined. Based on some recent observations, we conducted a study on a convenience sample in France (N = 809) in order to investigate two potential factors of lockdown resilience and coping: social position and household affordances, while also exploring some complementary hypotheses based on the literature. Social position and household affordances were identified as significant predictors of lockdown coping and resilience, and low social position was found to coincide with less social support coping strategies. Results are discussed in relation to the theory and the limits identified in this study. Recommendations are made for potential second waves of COVID-19 spread or similar pandemics in the future.
33587790 REFERENCES With the ongoing and possible evolving use of face coverings as a public health protection measure against the transmission of COVID-19, this is likely to be an ongoing challenge for those who find their use challenging. The wearing of face coverings following trauma is likely to be of ongoing relevance, making this an area that would benefit from further research. The authors present their personal and professional experiences as a means of highlighting the difficulties that can be faced as a result of the use of face coverings. The window of tolerance helps to understand the difficulties that can be caused by wearing face coverings and provides a visual means of conceptualizing the cognitive, behavioural, physiological and emotional reactions that can occur as a result of their use. This paper provides an awareness of the link between trauma and the wearing of face coverings, and how their use could be re-traumatizing for those accessing services. This topic is relevant across all sectors where it is only just beginning to be acknowledged that for many, particularly those with experiences of interpersonal trauma, difficulties can arise due to the use of face coverings. The sharing of grounding techniques and an introduction to the window of tolerance provides a means of collaboratively developing skills and developing a shared understanding of the difficulties associated with the use of face coverings.
32396251 REFERENCES 
35265332 REFERENCES The COVID-19 pandemic caused by SARS-CoV-2 exposed a global problem, as highly effective vaccines are challenging to produce and distribute, particularly in regions with limited resources and funding. As an alternative, immunoglobulins produced in eggs of immunized hens (IgY) can be a simple and inexpensive source for a topical and temporary prophylaxis. Here, we developed a method to extract and purify IgY antibodies from egg yolks of hens immunized against viral pathogen-derived proteins using low-cost, readily available materials, for use in resource-limited settings. Existing protocols for IgY purification and equipment were modified, including extraction from yolks and separation of water-soluble IgY using common household reagents and tools. A replacement for a commercial centrifuge was developed, using a home food processor equipped with a 3D printed adapter to enable IgY precipitation. IgY purification was verified using standard gel electrophoresis and Western blot analyses. We developed a step-by-step protocol for IgY purification for two settings in low- and middle-income countries (LMIC): a local laboratory, where commercial centrifuges are available, or a more rural setting, where an alternative for expensive centrifuges can be used. Gel electrophoresis and Western blot analyses confirmed that the method produced highly enriched IgY preparation; each commercial egg produced ~ 90 mg of IgY. We also designed a kit for IgY production in these two settings and provided a cost estimate of the kit. IgY purified from eggs of immunized local hens can offer a fast and affordable prophylaxis, provided that purification can be performed in a resource-limited setting. Here, we created a low-cost method that can be used anywhere where electricity is available using inexpensive, readily available materials in place of costly, specialized laboratory equipment and chemicals. This procedure can readily be used now to make an anti-SARS-CoV-2 prophylaxis in areas where vaccines are unavailable, and can be modified to combat future threats from viral epidemics and pandemics.
35281394  It is evident that the novel coronavirus disease pandemic inevitably resulted in increased stress and anxiety in the general population. Pregnancy is a challenging period, and COVID-19 has added risk to women pregnant during the pandemic. The present study was aimed to assess the emotional difficulties in pregnant females who tested positive for COVID-19. The current study estimated the prevalence of depression, anxiety, and stress among 63 pregnant ladies who tested positive for COVID-19. The study was conducted in Child and Maternity Hospital of GMC Anantnag, Kashmir, India, from April to December 2020. A total of 63 pregnant females who tested positive for COVID-19 participated in the study. The COVID-positive pregnant ladies were interviewed in the outpatient department of the child and maternity clinic 2 weeks after the infection. The interview scale used was Depression, Anxiety, and Stress Scale-21. The data were analyzed using Chi-square test and Fisher's exact test. We found that the mean age of participants was 33.5 +- 7.4. We found that 38.1% of the females had positive bad obstetric history. The prevalence of depression, anxiety, and stress was 33.32%, 50.83%, and 60.3%, respectively. In correlation analysis, notably bad obstetric history and working females were significant independent factors for higher levels of depression, anxiety, and stress. The depression was also found more in literate females and the third trimester. The study indicates high levels of depression, anxiety, and stress in pregnant females who tested positive for COVID-19. The emotional difficulties were found to be higher in educated and working females. The bad obstetric history was found to be an independent factor for higher levels of emotional difficulties in COVID-positive pregnant females. This calls for extra measures to promote the mental health and resilience of pregnant females, especially during a crisis.
32530889 References The global pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019 (Covid-19) may disproportionately affect persons in congregate settings, including those in residential substance use treatment facilities. To limit the spread of SARS-CoV-2 through congregate settings, universal testing may be necessary. We aimed to determine the point prevalence of SARS-CoV-2 in a residential treatment program setting and to understand the unique challenges of Covid-19 transmission in this setting. We performed a case series of SARS-CoV-2 rT-PCR testing via nasopharyngeal in a residential substance use treatment program for women in Boston. Staff and residents of the treatment program were tested for SARS-CoV-2. The primary outcome was SARS-CoV-2 test result. A total of 31 residents and staff were tested. Twenty-seven percent (6/22) of the residents and 44% (4/9) of staff tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. All of the SARS-CoV-2 positive residents resided in the same residential unit. Two positive cases resided together with two negative cases in a 4-person room. Two other positive cases resided together in a 2-person room. One positive case resided with two negative cases in a 3-person room. One positive case resided with a negative case in a 2-person room. Based on test results, residents were cohorted by infection status and continued to participate in addiction treatment on-site. SARS-CoV-2 infection was common among staff and residents within a residential substance use treatment program for women in Boston. Universal SARS-CoV-2 testing in residential substance use programs can be instituted to reduce the risk of further transmission and continue addiction treatment programming when accompanied by adequate space, supplies, and staffing.
33373651 References 
35250739 References In the context of coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19), the face-recognition-based access control system (FACS) has been intensively adopted to protect students' and teachers' health and safety in school. However, the impact of FACS, as a new technology, on students' attitude toward accepting FACS has remained unknown from the psychological halo effect. Drawn on "halo effect" theory where psychological effects affect the sense of social identity and belonging, the present study explored college students' sense of school identity and belonging in using FACS during COVID-19 based on the technology acceptance model (TAM). Data collected from 391 college students was analyzed using SEM to verify the relationship among perceived usefulness (PU), perceived ease of use (PEU), intention to use (IU), school identity, and school belonging. The results show that PU and PEU can positively predict IU, and consequentially can positively predict school identity and school belonging. Our study expands the application of halo effect theory to study FACS acceptance based on TAM, and provides strong evidence to support the effect of school FACS during the pandemic. The findings of this study also suggest that FACS acceptance can enhance students' sense of school identity and belonging.
34786319 References Recently, COVID-19 has infected a lot of people around the world. The healthcare systems are overwhelmed because of this virus. The intensive care unit (ICU) as a part of the healthcare sector has faced several challenges due to the poor information quality provided by current ICUs' medical equipment management. IoT has raised the ability for vital data transfer in the healthcare sector of the new century. However, most of the existing paradigms have adopted IoT technology to track patients' health statuses. Therefore, there is a lack of understanding on how to utilize such technology for ICUs' medical equipment management. This paper proposes a novel IoT-based paradigm called IoT Based Paradigm for Medical Equipment Management Systems (IoT MEMS) to manage medical equipment of ICUs efficiently. It employs IoT technology to enhance the information flow between medical equipment management systems (THIS) and ICUs during the COVID-19 outbreak to ensure the highest level of transparency and fairness in reallocating medical equipment. We described in detail the theoretical and practical aspects of IoT MEMS. Adopting IoT MEMS will enhance hospital capacity and capability in mitigating COVID-19 efficiently. It will also positively influence the information quality of (THIS) and strengthen trust and transparency among the stakeholders.
34568576 References Myocardial injury has been identified as a common complication in patients with COVID-19. However, recent research has serious limitations, such as non-guideline definition of myocardial injury, heterogenicity of troponin sampling or very short-term follow-up. Using data from a large European cohort, we aimed to overcome these pitfalls and adequately characterize myocardial damage in COVID-19. Consecutive patients with confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection and available high-sensitive troponin I (hs-TnI), from March 1st to April 20th, 2020 who completed at least 1-month follow-up or died, were studied. A total of 918 patients (mean age 63.2 +- 15.5 years, 60.1% male) with a median follow-up of 57 (49-63) days were included. Of these, 190 (20.7%) fulfilled strict criteria for myocardial injury (21.1% chronic, 76.8% acute non-ischemic, 2.1% acute ischemic). Time from onset of symptoms to maximum hs-TnI was 11 (7-18) days. Thrombotic and bleeding events, arrhythmias, heart failure, need for mechanical ventilation and death were significantly more prevalent in patients with higher hs-TnI concentrations, even without fulfilling criteria for myocardial injury. hs-TnI was identified as an independent predictor of mortality [HR 2.52 (1.57-4.04) per 5-logarithmic units increment] after adjusting for multiple relevant covariates. Elevated hs-TnI is highly prevalent among patients with SARS-CoV-2 infection. Even mild elevations well below the 99th URL were significantly associated with higher rates of cardiac and non-cardiac complications, and higher mortality. Future research should address the role of serial hs-TnI assessment to improve COVID-19 prognostic stratification and clinical outcomes.
33350677 REFERENCES Supplemental Digital Content is available in the text. Respiratory failure in coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) patients with prolonged endotracheal intubation may require a tracheostomy and percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) tube placement to facilitate recovery. Both techniques are considered high-risk aerosol-generating procedures and present a heightened risk of exposure to severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) for operating room personnel. We designed, simulated, and implemented a portable, continuous negative pressure, operative field barrier system using standard equipment available in hospitals to enhance health care provider safety during high-risk aerosol-generating procedures.
34588946 References Objectives: The aim of this review is to summarize the most relevant scientific discoveries regarding SARS- CoV-2 virus infection, with the special emphasis put on its pathophysiology and way of treatment. Methods: In November 2020, the research articles have been collected and examined manually to pick the most relevant. In case of fresh topics, e.g. vaccines, we have performed searching using adequate keywords. Preliminary analysis was conducted on 200 manuscripts. Results: Among them 59 papers were out-of-scope, and thus were rejected from the further elaboration. Another 25 papers were rebuffed because they presented topics, that have been extensively described in the already included papers. Basing on the 29 papers we have estimated ratio of observed SARS-CoV-2 infection clinical manifestations and comorbidities among hospitalized patients. 12 papers let us evaluate frequencies of deviations within laboratory markers concentrations, as well as weighted average of the laboratory tests results. Conclusion: Due to the significant infectivity of the virus and its harmfulness towards organism further studies are required to find accurate way of the disease treatment and suspending its spreading.
34342092 REFERENCES Aerosol spread is key to interpret the risk of viral contamination during clinical procedures such as esophageal high-resolution manometry (HRM). Installing an air purifier seems a legitimate strategy, but this has recently been questioned. Patients undergoing an HRM procedure at the Leuven University Hospital were included in this clinical study. All subjects had to wear a surgical mask which was only lowered beneath the nose during the placement and removal of the nasogastric catheter. The number of aerosol particles was measured by a Lasair II Particle Counter to obtain data about different particles sizes: 0.3; 0.5; 1.0; 3.0; 5.0; and 10.0 microm. Measurements were done immediately before the placement and the removal of the HRM catheter, and one and 5 min after. A portable air purifier with high-efficiency particle air filters was installed in the hospital room. Thirteen patients underwent a manometry examination. The amount of 0.3 microm-sized particles was unaffected during the whole procedure. The larger particle sizes (1.0; 3.0; 5.0; and 10.0 microm) decreased when the catheter was positioned, but not 0.5 microm. During the HRM measurements itself, these numbers decreased further. Yet, 1 min after catheter removal a significant elevation of particles was seen, which did not recover within 5 min. Based on this study, there is no evidence that filtration systems reduce aerosol particles properly during a clinical investigation.
32677385  The purpose of our study was to investigate the predictive abilities of clinical and computed tomography (CT) features for outcome prediction in patients with coronavirus disease (COVID-19). The clinical and CT data of 238 patients with laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 in our two hospitals were retrospectively analyzed. One hundred sixty-six patients (103 males; age 43.8 +- 12.3 years) were allocated in the training cohort and 72 patients (38 males; age 45.1 +- 15.8 years) from another independent hospital were assigned in the validation cohort. The primary composite endpoint was admission to an intensive care unit, use of mechanical ventilation, or death. Univariate and multivariate Cox proportional hazard analyses were performed to identify independent predictors. A nomogram was constructed based on the combination of clinical and CT features, and its prognostic performance was externally tested in the validation group. The predictive value of the combined model was compared with models built on the clinical and radiological attributes alone. Overall, 35 infected patients (21.1%) in the training cohort and 10 patients (13.9%) in the validation cohort experienced adverse outcomes. Underlying comorbidity (hazard ratio [HR], 3.35; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.67-6.71; p < 0.001), lymphocyte count (HR, 0.12; 95% CI, 0.04-0.38; p < 0.001) and crazy-paving sign (HR, 2.15; 95% CI, 1.03-4.48; p = 0.042) were the independent factors. The nomogram displayed a concordance index (C-index) of 0.82 (95% CI, 0.76-0.88), and its prognostic value was confirmed in the validation cohort with a C-index of 0.89 (95% CI, 0.82-0.96). The combined model provided the best performance over the clinical or radiological model (p < 0.050). Underlying comorbidity, lymphocyte count and crazy-paving sign were independent predictors of adverse outcomes. The prognostic nomogram based on the combination of clinical and CT features could be a useful tool for predicting adverse outcomes of patients with COVID-19.
33556317 References 
35184735 Authors' contributions Funding Availability of data and materials Declarations Ethics approval and consent to participate Consent for publication Competing interests References In response to the continuing threat of importing novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19), many countries have implemented some form of border restriction. A repercussion of these restrictions has been that some travellers have found themselves stranded abroad unable to return to their country of residence, and in need for government support. Our analysis explores the COVID-19-related information and support options provided by 11 countries to their citizens stranded overseas due to travel restrictions. We also examined the quality (i.e., readability, accessibility, and useability) of the information that was available from selected governments' web-based resources. Between June 18 to June 30, 2021, COVID-19-related webpages from 11 countries (Australia, New Zealand, Fiji, Canada, United States of America (USA), United Kingdom (UK), France, Spain, Japan, Singapore, and Thailand) were reviewed and content relating to information and support for citizens stuck overseas analysed. Government assistance-related data from each webpage was extracted and coded for the following themes: travel arrangements, health and wellbeing, finance and accommodation, information needs, and sources. Readability was examined using the Simplified Measure of Gobbledygook (SMOG) and the Flesch Kincaid readability tests; content 'accessibility' was measured using the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) Version 2.1; and content 'usability' assessed using the usability heuristics for website design tool. Ninety-eight webpages from 34 websites were evaluated. No country assessed covered all themes analysed. Most provided information and some level of support regarding repatriation options; border control and re-entry measures; medical assistance; and traveller registration. Only three countries provided information or support for emergency housing while abroad, and six provided some form of mental health support for their citizens. Our analysis of the quality of COVID-19-related information available on a subset of four countries' websites found poor readability and multiple accessibility and usability issues. This study uniquely analyses government support for citizens stuck abroad during the COVID-19 pandemic. With large variance in the information and services available across the countries analysed, our results highlight gaps, inconsistencies, and potential inequities in support available, and raise issues pertinent to the quality, accessibility, and usability of information. This study will assist policymakers plan and communicate comprehensive support packages for citizens stuck abroad due to the COVID-19 situation and design future efforts to prepare for global public health emergencies. The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12879-022-07155-2.
32794209  This study investigated olfactory and gustatory dysfunction in COVID-19 patients, and their correlations with viral load evaluation. This was a prospective cross-sectional cohort study of 143 symptomatic patients being screened for SARS-coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) invited to participate. The clinical data of 83 confirmed COVID-19 subjects were collected, with 60 patients who were symptomatic but negative for COVID-19 recruited as controls. The prevalence and severity of and recovery time for olfactory and gustatory dysfunction, and cycle threshold (Ct) values from a SARS-CoV-2 polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay of nasopharyngeal and deep throat swabs were collected. Their correlations with Ct values were reported. Thirty-nine (47.0%) and thirty-six (43.4%) COVID-19 patients reported olfactory and gustatory dysfunction, respectively. The results of one-way ANOVA did not show statistically significant relationships between the Ct values and severity of olfactory and gustatory dysfunction (p = 0.780 and p = 0.121, respectively). Among the COVID-19 patients who reported smell and taste loss, 28/39 (71.8%) and 30/36 (83.3%) experienced complete recovery, respectively. The mean recovery time was 10.3 +- 8.1 days for olfactory dysfunction and 9.5 +- 6.8 days for gustatory dysfunction. The recovery time was not correlated with the Ct values (Pearson correlation coefficient: smell: -0.008, p = 0.968; taste: -0.015, p = 0.940). There is a high prevalence of olfactory and gustatory dysfunction in COVID-19. However, the severity of and recovery from these symptoms have no correlations with the viral load of SARS-CoV-2. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
35439249 References Centralized manufacturing and global supply chains have emerged as an efficient strategy for large-scale production of goods throughout the 20th century. However, while this system of production is highly efficient, it is not resilient. The COVID-19 pandemic has seen numerous supply chains fail to adapt to sudden changes in supply and demand, including those for goods critical to the pandemic response such as personal protective equipment. Here, we consider the production of the non-woven polypropylene filtration media used in face filtering respirators (FFRs). The FFR supply chain's reliance on non-woven media sourced from large, centralized manufacturing facilities led to a supply chain failure. In this study, we present an alternative manufacturing strategy that allows us to move towards a more distributed manufacturing practice that is both scalable and robust. Specifically, we demonstrate that a fiber production technique known as centrifugal melt spinning can be implemented with modified, commercially-available cotton candy machines to produce nano- and microscale non-woven fibers. We evaluate several post processing strategies to transform the produced material into viable filtration media and then characterize these materials by measuring filtration efficiency and breathability, comparing them against equivalent materials used in commercially-available FFRs. Additionally, we demonstrate that waste plastic can be processed with this technique, enabling the development of distributed recycling strategies to address the growing plastic waste crisis. Since this method can be employed at small scales, it allows for the development of an adaptable and rapidly deployable distributed manufacturing network for non-woven materials that is financially accessible to more people than is currently possible.
34962356 REFERENCES 
32569772 References 
33410294 AUTHOR QUERIES References To evaluate three fully automated serological assays in terms of reactivity to SARS-CoV-2 immunoglobulin G (IgG) and perform SARS-CoV-2 IgG antibody testing among asymptomatic health care workers (HCW) at the University Hospital Center Zagreb. Three IgG serological assays (Abbott SARS-CoV-2 IgG, Elecsys Anti-SARS-CoV-2, and MAGLUMI 2019-nCoV IgG) were initially evaluated by analyzing 42 samples from confirmed COVID-19-recovered patients and 48 negative individuals. A total of 1678 HCW ( ~ 30% of all hospital employees) were screened for SARS-CoV-2 IgG with the Abbott assay, run on Abbott Architect i2000SR. The samples exceeding the predefined cut-off (1.4 S/C) were reanalyzed with the Elecsys, MAGLUMI, and VIDAS SARS-COV-2 IgG assays. Initially, the MAGLUMI 2019-nCoV IgG produced 26.2% false negatives and the Elecsys Anti-SARS-CoV-2 produced one false positive. Among 1678 HCW, the Abbott assay showed only 10 (0.6%) positive results, with mostly mildly elevated signals. Nine of these samples were non-reactive when they were retested with the Elecsys, MAGLUMI, and VIDAS assays. As for the one remaining sample, it was positive when tested with the Elecsys assay, while the other two assays yielded negative results. SARS-CoV-2 IgG seroprevalence among asymptomatic HCW in our hospital setting was low, with different assays indicating a different number of positive samples. One of the assays yielded a large false negative rate. These findings can be attributed to differences in assay formulation but also to heterogeneity and diverse reactivity of antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 antigens.
33054263 References For Africa, the backdrop against which COVID-19 emerged is a stark one. Although sub-Saharan Africa accounts for 11% of the world's population, it bears 24% of the global disease burden. The continent is home to 60% of the people with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), and over 90% of malarial patients. In this region, infectious diseases such as malaria and HIV cause 69% of deaths. As states respond to COVID-19, we need to keep our eyes open to what effective responses are notifying us about our healthcare systems, so that we can craft sustainable interventions as a result and uphold the right to health. This is especially true in the light of the ongoing nature of pandemics on the continent, making urgent the need to maximise the value of our health system and its resources, as we seek lasting transformation.
35015739 REFERENCES 
34394297  Like smoking, sedentary lifestyle is an issue of great concern because of its deleterious health challenges and implications. Given the global spread of the new coronavirus (COVID-19), social isolation regulations and laws have been implemented in many countries to contain the spread of the virus and this has caused a drastic shift from the usual physically demanding life to a sedentary lifestyle characterized by significantly reduced physical activities and prolong sitting. Human and nonhuman primate literature was examined to compare experimental and clinical modulation of inflammatory cytokines by exercised-induced myokines. Experimental and clinical evidence was used to examine whether exercised-induced myokines can prime the immune system of the elderly population during the COVID-19 pandemic. The immune system changes with advancement in age which increases the likelihood of infectious disease morbidity and mortality in older adults. Several epidemiological studies have also shown that physical inactivity among geriatric population impacts negatively on the immune system. Evidences on the importance of exercise in priming the immune system of elderly individuals could be an effective therapeutic strategy in combating the virus as it may well be a case of "let those with the best immune system win".
35206163 Author Contributions Funding Institutional Review Board Statement Informed Consent Statement Data Availability Statement Conflicts of Interest Appendix A. Qualitative Discussion Guide (Extract) References (1) Background: Approximately one in five women will experience mental health difficulties in the perinatal period. Women from ethnic minority backgrounds face a variety of barriers that can prevent or delay access to appropriate perinatal mental health care. COVID-19 pandemic restrictions created additional obstacles for this group of women. This study aims to explore minority ethnic women's experiences of perinatal mental health services during COVID-19 in London. (2) Methods: Eighteen women from ethnic minority backgrounds were interviewed, and data were subject to a thematic analysis. (3) Results: Three main themes were identified, each with two subthemes: 'Difficulties and Disruptions to Access' (Access to Appointments; Pandemic Restrictions and Disruption), 'Experiences of Remote Delivery' (Preference for Face-to-Face Contact; Advantages of Remote Support); and 'Psychosocial Experiences' linked to COVID-19 (Heightened Anxiety; Social Isolation). (4) Conclusions: Women from ethnic minority backgrounds experienced disrupted perinatal mental health care and COVID-19 restrictions compounding their mental health difficulties. Services should take women's circumstances into account and provide flexibility regarding remote delivery of care.
35480831 References Preventing the biological activity of SARS-CoV-2 main protease using natural compounds is of great interest. In this context, using a combination of AutoDock Vina and fast pulling of ligand simulations, eleven marine fungi compounds were identified that probably play as highly potent inhibitors for preventing viral replication. In particular, four compounds including M15 (3-O-(6-O-alpha-l-arabinopyranosyl)-beta-d-glucopyranosyl-1,4-dimethoxyxanthone), M8 (wailupemycins H), M11 (cottoquinazolines B), and M9 (wailupemycins I) adopted the predicted ligand-binding free energy of -9.87, -9.82, -9.62, and -9.35 kcal mol-1, respectively, whereas the other adopted predicted ligand-binding free energies in the range from -8.54 to -8.94 kcal mol-1. The results were obtained using a combination of Vina and FPL simulations. Notably, although, AutoDock4 adopted higher accurate results in comparison with Vina, Vina is proven to be a more suitable technique for rapidly screening ligand-binding affinity with a large database of compounds since it requires much smaller computing resources. Furthermore, FPL is better than Vina to classify inhibitors upon ROC-AUC analysis. Preventing the biological activity of SARS-CoV-2 main protease using natural compounds is of great interest.
33670316 Supplementary Materials Author Contributions Funding Institutional Review Board Statement Informed Consent Statement Data Availability Statement Conflicts of Interest References Objective: To describe empirical antimicrobial prescription on admission in patients with severe COVID-19, the prevalence of Hospital-Acquired Infections, and the susceptibility patterns of the causing organisms. Methods: In this prospective cohort study in a tertiary care center in Mexico City, we included consecutive patients admitted with severe COVID-19 between March 20th and June 10th and evaluated empirical antimicrobial prescription and the occurrence of HAI. Results: 794 patients with severe COVID-19 were admitted during the study period. Empiric antibiotic treatment was started in 92% of patients (731/794); the most frequent regimes were amoxicillin-clavulanate plus atypical coverage in 341 (46.6%) and ceftriaxone plus atypical coverage in 213 (29.1%). We identified 110 HAI episodes in 74/656 patients (11.3%). Ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP) was the most frequent HAI, in 56/110 (50.9%), followed by bloodstream infections (BSI), in 32/110 (29.1%). The most frequent cause of VAP were Enterobacteriaceae in 48/69 (69.6%), followed by non-fermenter gram-negative bacilli in 18/69 (26.1%). The most frequent cause of BSI was coagulase negative staphylococci, in 14/35 (40.0%), followed by Enterobacter complex in 7/35 (20%). Death occurred in 30/74 (40.5%) patients with one or more HAI episodes and in 193/584 (33.0%) patients without any HAI episode (p < 0.05). Conclusion: A high frequency of empiric antibiotic treatment in patients admitted with COVID-19 was seen. VAP and BSI were the most frequent hospital-acquired infections, due to Enterobacteriaceae and coagulase negative staphylococci, respectively.
35146922 REFERENCES Several studies have reported SARS-CoV-2 outbreaks in schools, with a wide range of secondary attack rate (SAR; range: 0-100%). We aimed to examine key risk factors to better understand SARS-CoV-2 transmission in schools. We collected records of 35 SARS-CoV-2 school outbreaks globally published from January 2020 to July 2021 and compiled information on hypothesized risk factors. We utilized the directed acyclic graph (DAG) to conceptualize risk mechanisms, used logistic regression to examine each risk-factor group, and further built multirisk models. The best-fit model showed that the intensity of community transmission (adjusted odds ratio [aOR]: 1.11, 95% CI: 1.06-1.16, for each increase of 1 case per 10 000 persons per week) and individualism (aOR: 2.72, 95% CI: 1.50-4.95, above vs. below the mean) was associated higher risk, whereas preventive measures (aOR: 0.25, 95% CI: 0.19-0.32, distancing and masking vs. none) and higher population immunity (aOR: 0.57, 95% CI: 0.46-0.71) were associated with lower risk of SARS-CoV-2 transmission in schools. Compared with students in high schools, the aOR was 0.47 (95% CI: 0.23-0.95) for students in preschools and 0.90 (95% CI: 0.76-1.08) for students in primary schools. Preventive measures in schools (e.g., social distancing and mask wearing) and communal efforts to lower transmission and increase vaccination uptake (i.e., vaccine-induced population immunity) in the community should be taken to collectively reduce transmission and protect children in schools.
32268212 References 
34129787 References Rapid and widespread implementation of infectious disease surveillance is a critical component in the response to novel health threats. Molecular assays are the preferred method to detect a broad range of viral pathogens with high sensitivity and specificity. The implementation of molecular assay testing in a rapidly evolving public health emergency, such as the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, can be hindered by resource availability or technical constraints. We present a screening strategy that is easily scaled up to support a sustained large volume of testing over long periods of time. This non-adaptive pooled-sample screening protocol employs Bayesian inference to yield a reportable outcome for each individual sample in a single testing step (no confirmation of positive results required). The proposed method is validated using clinical specimens tested using a real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction test for SARS-CoV-2. This screening protocol has substantial advantages for its implementation, including higher sample throughput, faster time to results, no need to retrieve previously screened samples from storage to undergo retesting, and excellent performance of the algorithm's sensitivity and specificity compared with the individual test's metrics.
34589743 References Conversion disorder/functional neurological disorder (CD/FND) occurs often in neurological settings and can lead to long-term distress, disability and demand on health care services. Systemic low-grade inflammation might play a role, however, the pathogenic mechanism is still unknown. 1) To explore the feasibility to establish and assess a cohort of CD/FND with motor symptoms, involving persons with lived experience (PPI). 2) To generate proof of concept regarding a possible role for cytokines, microRNA, cortisol levels and neurocognitive symptoms in patients with motor CD/FND. Feasibility study. The study showed active involvement of patients despite high clinical illness burden and disability, neurocognitive symptoms, childhood adverse experiences (ACE) and current life events. The study provided valuable knowledge regarding the feasibility of conducting a study in these patients that will inform future study phases. In the sample there were elevated levels of IL6, IL12, IL17A, IFNg, TNFa and VEGF-a, suggesting systemic low-grade inflammation. Also, microRNAs involved in inflammation and vascular inflammation were correlated with TNFa and VEGFa respectively, suggesting proof of concept for an epigenetic mechanism. Owing to the COVID-19 outbreak, the patient sample was limited to 15 patients. It is a novelty that this study is conducted in the clinical setting. This innovative, translational study explores stress-related SLI in CD/FND patients and the feasibility of a larger project aiming to develop new treatments for this vulnerable population. Given the positive findings, there is scope to conduct further research into the mechanism of disease in CD/FND. It is feasible to establish and assess a cohort of CD/FND with motor symptoms, involving persons with lived experience (PPI). IL6, TNFa, IFNg, TNFa, IL12 and IL17A are significantly higher than normal in CD/FND patients. VEGF-a is significantly lower, suggesting a lack of vascular and neuronal support. TNFa correlated with microRNA associated with inflammation (miR-146a and miR-155). This suggests an epigenetic mechanism. VEGFa correlated with miR-21 and miR-132, suggesting an epigenetic mechanism associated with vascular inflammation.
35236317 Abbreviations Authors' contributions Funding Availability of data and materials Declarations Ethics approval and consent to participate Consent for publication Competing interests References To investigate the impact of the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic on hospitalizations for neonatal infectious diseases. We analyzed data for neonatal inpatients admitted at a tertiary academic hospital with a principal diagnosis of an infectious disease during January 2015 to December 2020. We compared hospitalizations in 2020 (COVID-19 cohort), corresponding with the impact of COVID-19 pandemic and associated containment measures, and the comparable 2015 to 2019 (pre-COVID-19 cohort). 14,468 cases admitted for neonatal infectious diseases were included in our study, with 1201 cases in the COVID-19 cohort and 13,267 cases in the pre-COVID-19 cohort. The leading causes of hospitalizations for neonatal infectious diseases remain being respiratory tract infections (median ratio = 0.461, 95% CI 0.335-0.551), sepsis (median ratio = 0.292, 95% CI 0.263-0.361), gastric intestinal infections (median ratio = 0.095, 95% CI 0.078-0.118) and dermatologic infections (median ratio = 0.058, 95% CI 0.047-0.083). The seasonality of neonatal infectious disease hospitalizations could be obviously observed, with the total number and the overall rate of hospitalizations for neonatal infectious diseases in the first and fourth quarters greater than that of hospitalizations for neonatal infectious diseases in the second and third quarters in each year (1362.67 +- 360.54 vs 1048.67 +- 279.23, P = 0.001; 8176/20020 vs 6292/19369, P < 0.001, respectively). Both the numbers and the proportions of hospitalizations for neonatal infectious diseases in different quarters of the COVID-19 cohort significantly decreased as compared with those forecasted with the data from the pre-COVID-19 cohort: the numbers per quarter (300.25 +- 57.33 vs 546.64 +- 100.43, P-value = 0.006), the first quarter (0.34 vs 0.40, P = 0.002), the second quarter (0.24 vs 0.30, P = 0.001), the third quarter (0.24 vs 0.28, P = 0.024), and the fourth quarter (0.29 vs 0.35, P = 0.003). Despite the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, the leading causes of hospitalizations for neonatal infectious diseases remain unchanged. The seasonality of neonatal infectious disease hospitalizations could be obviously observed. The numbers as well as the overall rates of hospitalizations for neonatal infectious diseases in the COVID-19 cohort dramatically declined with the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and its mitigation measures. The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12879-022-07211-x.
33245005 References As the incidence of COVID-19 increases with time, more and more efforts are made to pave a way out for the therapeutic strategies to deal with the disease progression. Inflammation being a significant influencer in COVID-19 patients, it drives our focus onto the signaling cascades of the JAK/STAT pathway. JAK phosphorylation mediated by cytokine receptor activation leads to phosphorylation of STATs that translocate into the nucleus to translate for inflammatory mediators. The SARS-CoV-2 structural proteins like spike, nucleocapsid, membrane and envelope proteins along with the non- structural proteins 1-16 including proteases like 3CL pro and PLpro promote its entry and survival in hosts. The SARS-CoV-2 infection triggers inflammation via the JAK/STAT pathway leading to recruitment of pneumocytes, endothelial cells, macrophages, monocytes, lymphocytes, natural killer cells and dendritic cells progressing towards cytokine storm. This produces various inflammatory markers in the host that determine the disease severity. The JAK/STAT signaling also mediates immune responses via B cell and T cell differentiation.With an attempt to reduce excessive inflammation, JAK/STAT inhibitors like Ruxolitinib, Baricitinib, Tofacitinib have been employed that mediate its actions via suppressors of cytokine signaling, cytokine inducible SH2 containing protein, Protein inhibitor of activated STAT and protein tyrosine phosphatases. Even though they are implicated with multiple adverse effects, the regulatory authorities have supported its use, and numerous clinical trials are in progress to prove their safety and efficacy. On the contrary, the exact mechanism of JAK/STAT inhibition at molecular levels remains speculative for which further investigations are required.
33479805 References 
34926314 References Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection can cause gastrointestinal symptoms in the patients, but the role of gut microbiota in SARS-CoV-2 infection remains unclear. Thus, in this study, we aim to investigate whether SARS-CoV-2 infection affects the composition and function of gut microbiota. In this study, we demonstrated for the first time that significant shifts in microbiome composition and function were appeared in both SARS-CoV-2-infected asymptomatic and symptomatic cases. The relative abundance of Candidatus_Saccharibacteria was significantly increased, whereas the levels of Fibrobacteres was remarkably reduced in SARS-CoV-2-infected cases. There was one bacterial species, Spirochaetes displayed the difference between patients and asymptomatic cases. On the genus level, Tyzzerella was the key species that remarkably increased in both symptomatic and asymptomatic cases. Analyses of genome annotations further revealed SARS-CoV-2 infection resulted in the significant 'functional dysbiosis' of gut microbiota, including metabolic pathway, regulatory pathway and biosynthesis of secondary metabolites etc. We also identified potential metagenomic markers to discriminate SARS-CoV-2-infected symptomatic and asymptomatic cases from healthy controls. These findings together suggest gut microbiota is of possible etiological and diagnostic importance for SARS-CoV-2 infection.
34589316 Human Ethics Animal Ethics References Background: Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has till now affected about 110 million people globally. It has not spared any country and has led to 24 lakh deaths. As a result, the testing had to be increased manifold leading to depletion in the number of the quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) kits. Point-of-care rapid antigen-based tests were developed in order to meet the increasing demands. The objective of this study was to compare the performance of a rapid chromatographic test (index test) with a gold standard test (RT-qPCR). Methods: A retrospective analysis was done at a tertiary care teaching hospital in Eastern Uttar Pradesh, India. Paired samples were taken from all patients reporting to the clinic for antigen-based rapid diagnostic testing (RDT) and RT-qPCR. The sensitivity and specificity were calculated to evaluate the performance of the RDT. Results: The overall sensitivity and specificity of the RDT were observed to be 53.6% (39.7-67.0) and 97.35% (94.6-98.9), respectively. In symptomatic individuals, the sensitivity was higher 61.0% (44.5-75.8). The test positivity rates of RDT were found to be higher at a cycle threshold value <=20. Conclusion: RDT can be used as a screening test to rule in the infection especially in symptomatic patients who are more prone to spread the disease. It is an important weapon in the armamentarium of public healthcare for the containment of COVID-19.
34012470  Discrete count time series data with an excessive number of zeros have warranted the development of zero-inflated time series models to incorporate the inflation of zeros and the overdispersion that comes with it. In this paper, we investigated the characteristics of the trend of daily count of COVID-19 deaths in Ghana using zero-inflated models. We envisaged that the trend of COVID-19 deaths per day in Ghana portrays a general increase from the onset of the pandemic in the country to about day 160 after which there is a general decrease onward. We fitted a zero-inflated Poisson autoregressive model and zero-inflated negative binomial autoregressive model to the data in the partial-likelihood framework. The zero-inflated negative binomial autoregressive model outperformed the zero-inflated Poisson autoregressive model. On the other hand, the dynamic zero-inflated Poisson autoregressive model performed better than the dynamic negative binomial autoregressive model. The predicted new death based on the zero-inflated negative binomial autoregressive model indicated that Ghana's COVID-19 death per day will rise sharply few days after 30th November 2020 and drastically fall just as in the observed data.
35134561  Chemosensory disorders associated with coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) have been widely mentioned during the pandemic. We performed a meta-analysis to assess the risk factors for olfactory and gustatory dysfunction in patients with COVID-19. Three databases (PubMed, Embase, and Cochrane Library) were searched for studies published between December 1st, 2019 to August 31st, 2021. Select random effects model or fixed effects model to pool data based on heterogeneity. The results were reported as odds ratios or standardized mean differences and the corresponding 95% confidence intervals. Heterogeneity was reported as I2. Twenty-six studies with a total of 13813 patients were included. The pooled data indicated that sex (OR, 1.47; 95% CI, 0.93-2.31), age (SMD, -5.80; 95% CI, -13.35-1.75), smoking (OR, 2.04; 95% CI, 0.72-5.79), and comorbidity (OR, 1.21; 95% CI, 0.58-2.53) of COVID-19 patients had no effect on gustatory dysfunction. Olfactory dysfunction was more likely to occur in elderly patients with COVID-19 (SMD, -5.22; 95% CI, -8.28- -2.16). And COVID-19 patients with nasal congestion (OR, 3.41;95%CI, 2.30-5.06) and rhinorrhea (OR, 2.35; 95%CI, 1.60-3.45) are more prone to olfactory dysfunction. These findings emphasize that elderly COVID-19 patients are more likely to suffer from olfactory dysfunction. Symptoms of nasal congestion and rhinorrhea may affect the recognition of olfactory dysfunction.
34976910 References Abbreviations Background and Objective: Improving quality of care is one of the primary goals in current Chinese hospital reforms. Teamwork can play an essential role. Characteristics of teamwork and interventions for improving teamwork in hospitals have been widely studied. However, most of these studies are from a Western context; evidence from China is scarce. Because of the contextual differences between China and Western countries, empirical evidence on teamwork from Western hospitals may have limited validity in China. This systematic review aims to advance the evidence base and understanding of teamwork in Chinese hospitals. Methods: Both English (i.e., Embase, Medline, and Web of Science) and Chinese databases (i.e., CNKI, CQVIP, and Wanfang) were searched for relevant articles until February 6, 2020. We included the studies that empirically researched teamwork in Chinese hospitals. Studies were excluded if they (1) were not conducted in hospitals in Mainland China, (2) did not research teamwork on team interventions, (3) were not empirical, (4) were not written in English or Chinese, (5) were not published in peer-reviewed journals, and (6) were not conducted in teams that provide direct patient care. Both deductive and inductive approaches were used to analyze data. The Mixed Methods Appraisal Tool (MMAT) was used to assess their methodological quality. Results: A total of 70 articles (i.e., 39 English articles and 31 Chinese articles) were included. The results are presented in two main categories: Teamwork components and Team interventions. The evidence regarding the relationships among inputs, processes, and outcomes is scarce and mostly inconclusive. The only conclusive evidence shows that females perceive better team processes than males. Similar types of training and tools were introduced as can be found in Western literature, all showing positive effects. In line with the Chinese health reforms, many of the intervention studies regard the introduction of multidisciplinary teams (MDTs). The evidence on the implementation of MDTs reveals that they have led to lower complication rates, shorter hospital stays, higher diagnosis accuracy, efficiency improvement, and a variety of better disease-specific clinical outcomes. Evidence on the effect on patient survival is inconclusive. Conclusion: The Chinese studies on teamwork components mainly focus on the input-process relationship. The evidence provided on this relationship is, however, mostly inconclusive. The intervention studies in Chinese hospitals predominantly focus on patient outcomes rather than organizational and employee outcomes. The introduction of training, tools, and MDTs generally shows promising results. The evidence from primary hospitals and rural areas, which are prioritized in the health reforms, is especially scarce. Advancing the evidence base on teamwork, especially in primary hospitals and rural areas, is needed and can inform policy and management to promote the health reform implementation. Systematic Review Registration: https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/prospero/display_record.php?ID=CRD42020175069, identifier CRD42020175069.
35320487 Author contribution Declarations Ethics approval Conflict of interest References Individual susceptibility to develop acute respiratory distress syndrome is related to age and most frequent comorbidities. So far, it is known that severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) primarily infects the type II pneumocytes in humans, with the help of transmembrane serine protease type 2 (TMPRSS2). Up to now, the only known transcriptional promoters of genes coding TMPRSS2 are androgenic. Theoretically, the elevated level of androgens or androgen receptors would lead to a higher expression of TMPRSS2 and a higher level of viremia as a consequence. The aim of our research was to indirectly investigate if the severity of SARS-CoV-2 infection is dependent on the expression of androgen receptors. This observational study analysed male patients hospitalized for SARS-CoV-2 infection with respect to the length of hospitalisation, the outcome of the disease, the type of necessary oxygen support and the presence of comorbidities and hairiness. In hairiness estimation, we used an adapted version of the Hamilton-Norwood scale and the presence of the Gabrin sign. In total, 208 patients were enrolled in the study. There were statistically significant differences comparing the average age of patients with the different types of alopecia when groups were divided according to the presence of the Gabrin sign (t = 4.958, p > 0.01). The outcomes and the type of needed minimal oxygen support, compared with the type of alopecia in the case of Gabrin + / - classification showed a statistically significant difference in the outcome of the disease (p = 0.027). There were no statistically significant differences in the distribution of comorbidities among alopecia groups, but hypertension was related to poor COVID-19 prognosis. Our findings suggest that the Gabrin sign and hypertension are related to a poor COVID-19 prognosis.
34767767 References Non-invasive respiratory support (NIRS) has increasingly been used in the management of COVID-19-associated acute respiratory failure, but questions remain about the utility, safety, and outcome benefit of NIRS strategies. We identified two randomised controlled trials and 83 observational studies, compromising 13 931 patients, that examined the effects of NIRS modalities:high-flow nasal oxygen, continuous positive airway pressure, and bilevel positive airway pressure:on patients with COVID-19. Of 5120 patients who were candidates for full treatment escalation, 1880 (37%) progressed to invasive mechanical ventilation and 3658 of 4669 (78%) survived to study end. Survival was 30% among the 1050 patients for whom NIRS was the stated ceiling of treatment. The two randomised controlled trials indicate superiority of non-invasive ventilation over high-flow nasal oxygen in reducing the need for intubation. Reported complication rates were low. Overall, the studies indicate that NIRS in patients with COVID-19 is safe, improves resource utilisation, and might be associated with better outcomes. To guide clinical decision making, prospective, randomised studies are needed to address timing of intervention, optimal use of NIRS modalities:alone or in combination:and validation of tools such as oxygenation indices, response to a trial of NIRS, and inflammatory markers as predictors of treatment success.
33688413 REFERENCES COVID-19 has been associated with a variety of cardiac manifestations. Myocarditis and pericarditis have been reported as one of the many cardiac manifestations in association with COVID-19. We describe below three cases of myocarditis, pericarditis with associated pericardial effusion and myopericarditis, respectively, in the setting of COVID-19. Although these entities may occur in isolation, they often occur in association to varying degrees. It could either be the initial diagnosis at the time of presentation or it could occur later in the course of COVID-19 infection. Pericarditis may occasionally be associated with significant pericardial effusion and tamponade requiring therapeutic pericardiocentesis. The assessment of pericardial effusion has been found to be exudative and is usually negative for SARS-CoV-2. Treatment of pericarditis with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, colchicine, and corticosteroids has proven to be safe in COVID-19. Myocarditis may present with severe left ventricular systolic dysfunction and cardiogenic shock requiring inotropes and mechanical circulatory support.
35151856 References The COVID-19 pandemic has increased the availability of virtual horse showing opportunities. The objectives of this study were to describe survey participants' personal characteristics and participation in virtual and in-person horse shows, level of satisfaction, attitude toward technology and motivation to participate, and internal and external factors influencing the decision to participate in virtual horse shows. A survey was distributed to a target audience of adult horse show participants and/or adults supporting youth horse show participants via Qualtrics (n =251). A majority of respondents (91.2%) reported benefits to participating in virtual horse shows, and 59.8% plan to continue showing virtually when in-person shows resume. The opportunity to show virtually has resulted in 76.1% of respondents anticipating increasing their participation in showing (in-person or virtual). An improvement in attitude toward technology (M =1.6; SD =0.4; Range =1.0 - 2.3) and an increase in motivation to participate, ride and show (M =1.4; SD =0.4; Range =1.0 - 2.8) was also reported. In addition, respondents indicated they were somewhat likely to be influenced to participate in virtual shows by internal factors such as their budget and ability to record the ride. External factors such as feedback from judges, available divisions, and awards were extremely likely to influence their decision to participate. In conclusion, virtual horse shows have provided a satisfactory outlet to keep people engaged in the industry. Additional research should be done to determine if the current popularity of virtual horse showing persists once in-person shows have fully resumed.
34844968 References Since the beginning of COVID-19 vaccination in New Jersey in December 2020, we have observed multiple cases of undetectable adaptive immunity, post-vaccination or post-COVID-19 infection, in patients using immunosuppressants. Here, we present three cases of patients using immunosuppressants: mycophenolate and tacrolimus for renal transplant; ocrelizumab for multiple sclerosis and rituximab for peripheral ulcerative keratitis. All three patients were admitted for acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) from COVID-19 pneumonia; two patients reported having received full COVID-19 vaccination prior to admission and one unvaccinated patient required readmission. Our findings showed that these patients tested negative for SARS-CoV-2 IgM spike and CoV-2 IgG nucleocapsid antibodies. All three patients were treated with standard-of-care remdesivir, dexamethasone and convalescent plasma; two recovered successfully and one patient died from respiratory failure secondary to worsening ARDS from COVID-19 pneumonia. We highlight the challenges of treating immunosuppressed patients with COVID-19 pneumonia, in an era where dissemination of such information is paramount to helping doctors standardise and improve the quality of care for these patients.
35455356 Funding Institutional Review Board Statement Informed Consent Statement Data Availability Statement Conflicts of Interest References Organismal ageing is associated with many physiological changes, including differences in the immune system of most animals. These differences are often considered to be a key cause of age-associated diseases as well as decreased vaccine responses in humans. The most often cited vaccine failure is seasonal influenza, but, while it is usually the case that the efficiency of this vaccine is lower in older than younger adults, this is not always true, and the reasons for the differential responses are manifold. Undoubtedly, changes in the innate and adaptive immune response with ageing are associated with failure to respond to the influenza vaccine, but the cause is unclear. Moreover, recent advances in vaccine formulations and adjuvants, as well as in our understanding of immune changes with ageing, have contributed to the development of vaccines, such as those against herpes zoster and SARS-CoV-2, that can protect against serious disease in older adults just as well as in younger people. In the present article, we discuss the reasons why it is a myth that vaccines inevitably protect less well in older individuals, and that vaccines represent one of the most powerful means to protect the health and ensure the quality of life of older adults.
32624433 References 
33430698 Note References The global COVID-19 pandemic has imposed challenges on healthcare systems and professionals worldwide and introduced a maelstrom of ethical dilemmas. How ethically demanding situations are handled affects employees' moral stress and job satisfaction. Describe priority-setting dilemmas, moral distress and support experienced by nurses and physicians across medical specialties in the early phase of the COVID-19 pandemic in Western Norway. A cross-sectional hospital-based survey was conducted from 23 April to 11 May 2020. Ethical approval granted by the Regional Research Ethics Committee in Western Norway (131421). Among the 1606 respondents, 67% had experienced priority-setting dilemmas the previous two weeks. Healthcare workers who were directly involved in COVID-19 care, were redeployed or worked in psychiatry/addiction medicine experienced it more often. Although 59% of the respondents had seen adverse consequences due to resource scarcity, severe consequences were rare. Moral distress levels were generally low (2.9 on a 0-10 scale), but higher in selected groups (redeployed, managers and working in psychiatry/addiction medicine). Backing from existing collegial and managerial structures and routines, such as discussions with colleagues and receiving updates and information from managers that listened and acted upon feedback, were found more helpful than external support mechanisms. Priority-setting guidelines were also helpful. By including all medical specialties, nurses and physicians, and various institutions, the study provides information on how the COVID-19 mitigation also influenced those not directly involved in the COVID-19 treatment of patients. In the next stages of the pandemic response, support for healthcare professionals directly involved in outbreak-affected patients, those redeployed or those most impacted by mitigation strategies must be a priority. Empirical research of healthcare workers experiences under a pandemic are important to identify groups at risks and useful support mechanisms.
32480420  The SARS-CoV-2-associated disease (COVID-19) is primarily manifested as a respiratory tract infection but may affect and cause complications from multiple organ systems (cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, kidneys, hematopoietic and immune systems) while no proven specific therapy exists. The challenges associated with COVID-19 are even greater for patients with light chain (AL) amyloidosis, a rare multisystemic disease affecting the heart, kidneys, liver, gastrointestinal and nervous system. Patients with AL amyloidosis may need to receive chemotherapy, which probably increases infection risk. Management of COVID-19 may be particularly challenging in patients with AL amyloidosis who often present with cardiac dysfunction, nephrotic syndrome, neuropathy, low blood pressure and gastrointestinal symptoms. In addition, AL patients may be more susceptible to toxicities of drugs used to manage COVID-19. Access to health care may be difficult or limited, diagnosis of AL amyloidosis may be delayed with detrimental consequences, treatment administration may need modification. Both patients and treating physicians need to adapt in a new reality.
32524792  The current study reported a case series to illustrate the early computed tomography (CT) findings of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in pediatric patients. All pediatric patients who were diagnosed with COVID-19 and who underwent CT scan in Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University from January 20, 2020 to February 28, 2020 were included in the current study. Data on clinical and CT features were collected and analyzed. Four children were included in the current study. All of them were asymptomatic throughout the disease course (ranging from 7 days to 15 days), and none of them showed abnormalities in blood cell counts. Familial cluster was the main transmission pattern. Thin-section CT revealed abnormalities in three patients, and one patient did not present with any abnormal CT findings. Unilateral lung involvement was observed in two patients, and one patient showed bilateral lung involvement. In total, five small lesions were identified, including ground-glass opacity (n = 4) and consolidation (n = 1). All lesions had ill-defined margins with peripheral distribution and predilection of lower lobe. Small patches of ground-glass opacity with subpleural distribution and unilateral lung involvement were common findings on CT scans of pediatric patients in the early stage of the disease.
33259882 References Understanding how severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) is spread within the hospital setting is essential in order to protect staff, implement effective infection control measures, and prevent nosocomial transmission. The presence of SARS-CoV-2 in the air and on environmental surfaces around hospitalized patients, with and without respiratory symptoms, was investigated. Environmental sampling was undertaken within eight hospitals in England during the first wave of the coronavirus disease 2019 outbreak. Samples were analysed using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and virus isolation assays. SARS-CoV-2 RNA was detected on 30 (8.9%) of 336 environmental surfaces. Cycle threshold values ranged from 28.8 to 39.1, equating to 2.2 x 105 to 59 genomic copies/swab. Concomitant bacterial counts were low, suggesting that the cleaning performed by nursing and domestic staff across all eight hospitals was effective. SARS-CoV-2 RNA was detected in four of 55 air samples taken <1 m from four different patients. In all cases, the concentration of viral RNA was low and ranged from <10 to 460 genomic copies/m3 air. Infectious virus was not recovered from any of the PCR-positive samples analysed. Effective cleaning can reduce the risk of fomite (contact) transmission, but some surface types may facilitate the survival, persistence and/or dispersal of SARS-CoV-2. The presence of low or undetectable concentrations of viral RNA in the air supports current guidance on the use of specific personal protective equipment for aerosol-generating and non-aerosol-generating procedures.
34031483 Author contributions Data availability Competing interests References Physicians taking care of patients with COVID-19 have described different changes in routine blood parameters. However, these changes hinder them from performing COVID-19 diagnoses. We constructed a machine learning model for COVID-19 diagnosis that was based and cross-validated on the routine blood tests of 5333 patients with various bacterial and viral infections, and 160 COVID-19-positive patients. We selected the operational ROC point at a sensitivity of 81.9% and a specificity of 97.9%. The cross-validated AUC was 0.97. The five most useful routine blood parameters for COVID-19 diagnosis according to the feature importance scoring of the XGBoost algorithm were: MCHC, eosinophil count, albumin, INR, and prothrombin activity percentage. t-SNE visualization showed that the blood parameters of the patients with a severe COVID-19 course are more like the parameters of a bacterial than a viral infection. The reported diagnostic accuracy is at least comparable and probably complementary to RT-PCR and chest CT studies. Patients with fever, cough, myalgia, and other symptoms can now have initial routine blood tests assessed by our diagnostic tool. All patients with a positive COVID-19 prediction would then undergo standard RT-PCR studies to confirm the diagnosis. We believe that our results represent a significant contribution to improvements in COVID-19 diagnosis.
32474574  There have been several significant outbreaks of COVID-19 in federal immigrant detention centers, which lack clear and consistent guidelines across Department of Homeland Security (DHS) agencies to limit the spread of COVID-19. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has issued detailed guidelines for the control, prevention, and evaluation of COVID-19 in detention facilities. While the DHS's Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency has stated that it complies with CDC recommendations, its policies significantly differ from these CDC guidelines, placing detainees at risk for contracting COVID-19. This submission urges the adoption of CDC guidelines across DHS-associated facilities. Such a policy change has the potential to protect and save the lives of the most vulnerable populations under the auspices of the federal government.
33264497 Abbreviations References Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 pandemic capacity is derived from the unique structural features on its spike protein: fast viral surfing over the epithelium with flat N-terminal domain, tight binding to ACE2 entry receptor, and furin protease utilization. In addition, the possible involvement of other components such as lipid rafts, CLRs, and neuropilin is, in combination, mediating the accelerated cell entry and other critical steps in its overwhelming contagious capacity and pandemy. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is the causative agent of the pandemic coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) that exhibits an overwhelming contagious capacity over other human coronaviruses (HCoVs). This structural snapshot describes the structural bases underlying the pandemic capacity of SARS-CoV-2 and explains its fast motion over respiratory epithelia that allow its rapid cellular entry. Based on notable viral spike (S) protein features, we propose that the flat sialic acid-binding domain at the N-terminal domain (NTD) of the S1 subunit leads to more effective first contact and interaction with the sialic acid layer over the epithelium, and this, in turn, allows faster viral 'surfing' of the epithelium and receptor scanning by SARS-CoV-2. Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE-2) protein on the epithelial surface is the primary entry receptor for SARS-CoV-2, and protein-protein interaction assays demonstrate high-affinity binding of the spike protein (S protein) to ACE-2. To date, no high-frequency mutations were detected at the C-terminal domain of the S1 subunit in the S protein, where the receptor-binding domain (RBD) is located. Tight binding to ACE-2 by a conserved viral RBD suggests the ACE2-RBD interaction is likely optimal. Moreover, the viral S subunit contains a cleavage site for furin and other proteases, which accelerates cell entry by SARS-CoV-2. The model proposed here describes a structural basis for the accelerated host cell entry by SARS-CoV-2 relative to other HCoVs and also discusses emerging hypotheses that are likely to contribute to the development of antiviral strategies to combat the pandemic capacity of SARS-CoV-2.
34840464  The World Health Organization declared coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) a pandemic on March 11, 2020. COVID-19, the current global health emergency, is wreaking havoc on human health systems and, to a lesser degree, on animals globally. The outbreak has continued since the first report of COVID-19 in China in December 2019, and the second and third waves of the outbreak have already begun in several countries. COVID-19 is expected to have adverse effects on crop production, food security, integrated pest control, tourism, the car industry, and other sectors of the global economy. COVID-19 induces a range of effects in livestock that is reflected economically since human health and livelihood are intertwined with animal health. We summarize the potentially harmful effects of COVID-19 on livestock and possible mitigation steps in response to this global outbreak. Mitigation of the negative effects of COVID-19 and future pandemics on livestock requires the implementation of current guidelines.
35588736 References 
34107137 REFERENCES In addition to respiratory support needs, patients' characteristics to guide indication or timing of corticosteroid treatment in COVID-19 patients are not completely established. This study aimed to evaluate the impact of methylprednisolone on mortality rate in patients with COVID-19 pneumonia-induced severe systemic inflammation (PI-SSI). Between 9 March and 5 May 2020 (final follow-up on 2 July 2020), a retrospective cohort study was conducted in hospitalised patients with COVID-19 PI-SSI (>=2 inflammatory biomarkers [IBs]: temperature >=38C, lymphocyte <=800 cell/microL, C-reactive protein >=100 mg/L, lactate dehydrogenase >=300 units/L, ferritin >=1000 mcg/L, D-dimer >=500 ng/mL). Patients received 0.5-1.0 mg/kg of methylprednisolone for 5-10 days or standard of care. The primary outcome was 28-day all-cause mortality. Secondary outcomes included >=2 points improvement on a 7-item WHO-scale (Day 14), transfer to intensive care unit (ICU) (Day 28) and adverse effects. Kaplan-Meier method and Cox proportional hazard regression were implemented to analyse the time to event outcomes. A total of 142 patients (corticosteroid group n = 72, control group n = 70) were included. A significant reduction in 28-day all-cause mortality was shown with methylprednisolone in patients with respiratory support (HR: 0.15; 95% CI 0.03-0.71), with >=3 (HR: 0.17; 95% CI 0.05-0.61) or >=4 altered IB (HR: 0.15; 95% CI 0.04-0.54) and in patients with both respiratory support and >=3 (HR: 0.11; 95% CI 0.02-0.53] or >=4 altered IB (HR: 0.14; 95% CI 0.04-0.51). No significant differences were found in secondary outcomes. Intermediate to high doses of methylprednisolone, initiated between 5 and 12 days after symptom onset, was associated with a significant reduction in 28-day all-cause mortality in patients with COVID-19 pneumonia and >=3 o >= 4 altered IB, independently of the need of respiratory support.
32729279 Response 
34224607 REFERENCES 
35305625 Abbreviations Authors' contributions Funding Availability of data and materials Declarations Ethics approval and consent to participate Consent for publication Competing interests References The NHS is facing substantial pressures to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic. Optimising workforce modelling is a fundamental component of the recovery plan. The Clinically Lead workforcE and Activity Redesign (CLEAR) programme is a unique methodology that trains clinicians to redesign services, building intrinsic capacity and capability, optimising patient care and minimising the need for costly external consultancy. This paper describes the CLEAR methodology and the evaluation of previous CLEAR projects, including the return on investment. CLEAR is a work-based learning programme that combines qualitative techniques with data analytics to build innovations and new models of care. It has four unique stages: (1) Clinical engagement- used to gather rich insights from stakeholders and clinicians. (2) Data interrogation- utilising clinical and workforce data for cohort analysis. (3) Innovation- using structured innovation methods to develop new models of care. (4) Recommendations- report writing, impact assessment and presentation of key findings to executive boards. A mixed-methods formative evaluation was carried out on completed projects, which included semi-structured interviews and surveys with CLEAR associates and stakeholders, and a health economic logic model that was developed to link the inputs, processes, outputs and the outcome of CLEAR as well as the potential impacts of the changes identified from the projects. CLEAR provides a more cost-effective delivery of complex change programmes than the alternatives - resulting in a cost saving of $1.90 for every $1 spent independent of implementation success. Results suggest that CLEAR recommendations are more likely to be implemented compared to other complex healthcare interventions because of the levels of clinical engagement and have a potential return on investment of up to $14 over 5 years for every $1 invested. CLEAR appears to have a positive impact on staff retention and wellbeing, the cost of a CLEAR project is covered if one medical consultant remains in post for a year. The unique CLEAR methodology is a clinically effective and cost-effective complex healthcare innovation that optimises workforce and activity design, as well as improving staff retention. Embedding CLEAR methodology in the NHS could have substantial impact on patient care, staff well-being and service provision. The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12913-022-07757-1.
32991794 Protocol Supplementary Appendix Disclosure Forms Data Sharing Statement References Testing of vaccine candidates to prevent infection with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) in an older population is important, since increased incidences of illness and death from coronavirus disease 2019 (Covid-19) have been associated with an older age. We conducted a phase 1, dose-escalation, open-label trial of a messenger RNA vaccine, mRNA-1273, which encodes the stabilized prefusion SARS-CoV-2 spike protein (S-2P) in healthy adults. The trial was expanded to include 40 older adults, who were stratified according to age (56 to 70 years or >=71 years). All the participants were assigned sequentially to receive two doses of either 25 mug or 100 mug of vaccine administered 28 days apart. Solicited adverse events were predominantly mild or moderate in severity and most frequently included fatigue, chills, headache, myalgia, and pain at the injection site. Such adverse events were dose-dependent and were more common after the second immunization. Binding-antibody responses increased rapidly after the first immunization. By day 57, among the participants who received the 25-mug dose, the anti-S-2P geometric mean titer (GMT) was 323,945 among those between the ages of 56 and 70 years and 1,128,391 among those who were 71 years of age or older; among the participants who received the 100-mug dose, the GMT in the two age subgroups was 1,183,066 and 3,638,522, respectively. After the second immunization, serum neutralizing activity was detected in all the participants by multiple methods. Binding- and neutralizing-antibody responses appeared to be similar to those previously reported among vaccine recipients between the ages of 18 and 55 years and were above the median of a panel of controls who had donated convalescent serum. The vaccine elicited a strong CD4 cytokine response involving type 1 helper T cells. In this small study involving older adults, adverse events associated with the mRNA-1273 vaccine were mainly mild or moderate. The 100-mug dose induced higher binding- and neutralizing-antibody titers than the 25-mug dose, which supports the use of the 100-mug dose in a phase 3 vaccine trial. (Funded by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and others; mRNA-1273 Study ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT04283461.)
34720778 References Assessing and ranking private health insurance companies provides insurance agencies, insurance customers, and authorities with a reliable instrument for the insurance decision-making process. Moreover, because the world's insurance sector suffers from a gap of evaluation of private health insurance companies during the COVID-19 outbreak, the need for a reliable, useful, and comprehensive decision tool is obvious. Accordingly, this article aims to identify insurance companies' priority ranking in terms of healthcare services in Turkey during the COVID-19 outbreak through a multi-criteria performance evaluation methodology. Herein, alternatives are evaluated and then ranked as per 7 criteria and assessments of 5 experts. Experts' judgments and assessments are full of uncertainties. We propose a Measurement of Alternatives and Ranking according to the Compromise Solution (MARCOS) technique under an intuitionistic fuzzy environment to rank insurance companies. The outcomes yielded ten insurance companies ranking in terms of healthcare services in the era of COVID-19. The payback period, premium price, and network are determined as the most crucial factors. Finally, a comprehensive sensitivity analysis is performed to verify the proposed methodology's stability and effectiveness. The introduced approach met the insurance assessment problem during the COVID-19 pandemic very satisfactory manner based on sensitivity analysis findings.
32311790 References Rapid and early severity-of-illness assessment appears to be important for critically ill patients with novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19). This study aimed to evaluate the performance of the rapid scoring system on admission of these patients. A total of 138 medical records of critically ill patients with COVID-19 were included in the study. Demographic and clinical characteristics on admission used for calculating Modified Early Warning Score (MEWS) and Rapid Emergency Medicine Score (REMS) and outcomes (survival or death) were collected for each case and extracted for analysis. All patients were divided into two age subgroups (<65 years and >=65 years). The receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analyses were performed for overall patients and both subgroups. The median [25th quartile, 75th quartile] of MEWS of survivors versus nonsurvivors were 1 [1, 2] and 2 [1, 3] and those of REMS were 5 [2, 6] and 7 [6, 10], respectively. In overall analysis, the area under the ROC curve for the REMS in predicting mortality was 0.833 (95% confidence interval [CI] = 0.737 to 0.928), higher than that of MEWS (0.677, 95% CI = 0.541 to 0.813). An optimal cutoff of REMS (>=6) had a sensitivity of 89.5%, a specificity of 69.8%, a positive predictive value of 39.5%, and a negative predictive value of 96.8%. In the analysis of subgroup of patients aged <65 years, the area under the ROC curve for the REMS in predicting mortality was 0.863 (95% CI = 0.743 to 0.941), higher than that of MEWS (0.603, 95% CI = 0.462 to 0.732). To our knowledge, this study was the first exploration on rapid scoring systems for critically ill patients with COVID-19. The REMS could provide emergency clinicians with an effective adjunct risk stratification tool for critically ill patients with COVID-19, especially for the patients aged <65 years. The effectiveness of REMS for screening these patients is attributed to its high negative predictive value.
32847744 References 
32833711 REFERENCES 
35052240 Author Contributions Funding Institutional Review Board Statement Informed Consent Statement Data Availability Statement Conflicts of Interest References The South African health care system was hard hit by the second wave of Coronavirus disease (COVID-19), which affected nurse managers as healthcare facilities became overwhelmed due to an increased workload emanating from the overflow of admissions. Therefore, this study sought to explore and describe the nurse managers' experiences during COVID-19 in order to identify gaps and lessons learnt. A descriptive phenomenological research approach was used to explore the experiences of ten nurse managers who were purposively selected from different units of a selected district hospital. Data was collected through telephonic unstructured individual interviews and analysed using Colaizzi's seven steps method. The study revealed that nurse managers experienced human resource related challenges during COVID-19, worsened by the fact that vacant posts were frozen. It also emerged that there was a shortage of material resources that affected patient care. Nurse managers also indicated that COVID-19 brought a lot of administrative duties plus an additional duty of patient care. Also, nurse managers who had previously contracted COVID-19 experienced stigma and discrimination. The government needs to address resource related challenges in rural public hospitals and provide continuous support to nurse managers, particularly during a pandemic like COVID-19.
35308745 Human Ethics References The novel coronavirus disease has caused an ongoing pandemic since the end of 2019. It is a transmissible infection caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. The highly infectious nature of this illness is based mostly throughout the respiratory tract. However, this virus can affect all systems of the human body, such as the gastrointestinal tract. We report a case of pancreatic pseudocysts as a late manifestation of COVID-19.
34730819 References What are veterans' attitudes and intentions associated with COVID-19 vaccination? In this survey study of 1178 US veterans in March 2021, 71% of veterans reported being vaccinated against COVID-19. Fears about side effects and worry about the newness of vaccines were the primary reasons given for not getting vaccinated, reflecting vaccine skepticism and deliberation. These findings suggest that targeting veterans' concerns around the adverse effects and safety of COVID-19 vaccines through conversations with trusted Veterans Health Administration health care practitioners is key to increasing vaccine acceptance. This survey study assesses veterans' attitudes toward and intentions to receive COVID-19 vaccines. Compared with the general population, veterans are at high risk for COVID-19 and have a complex relationship with the government. This potentially affects their attitudes toward receiving COVID-19 vaccines. To assess veterans' attitudes toward and intentions to receive COVID-19 vaccines. This cross-sectional web-based survey study used data from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Survey of Healthcare Experiences of Patients' Veterans Insight Panel, fielded between March 12 and 28, 2021. Of 3420 veterans who were sent a link to complete a 58-item web-based survey, 1178 veterans (34%) completed the survey. Data were analyzed from April 1 to August 25, 2021. Veterans eligible for COVID-19 vaccines. The outcomes of interest were veterans' experiences with COVID-19, vaccination status and intention groups, reasons for receiving or not receiving a vaccine, self-reported health status, and trusted and preferred sources of information about COVID-19 vaccines. Reasons for not getting vaccinated were classified into categories of vaccine deliberation, dissent, distrust, indifference, skepticism, and policy and processes. Among 1178 respondents, 974 (83%) were men, 130 (11%) were women, and 141 (12%) were transgender or nonbinary; 58 respondents (5%) were Black, 54 veterans (5%) were Hispanic or Latino, and 987 veterans (84%) were non-Hispanic White. The mean (SD) age of respondents was 66.7 (10.1) years. A total of 817 respondents (71%) self-reported being vaccinated against COVID-19. Of 339 respondents (29%) who were not vaccinated, those unsure of getting vaccinated were more likely to report fair or poor overall health (32 respondents [43%]) and mental health (33 respondents [44%]) than other nonvaccinated groups (overall health: range, 20%-32%; mental health: range, 18%-40%). Top reasons for not being vaccinated were skepticism (120 respondents [36%] were concerned about side effects; 65 respondents [20%] preferred using few medications; 63 respondents [19%] preferred gaining natural immunity), deliberation (74 respondents [22%] preferred to wait because vaccine is new), and distrust (61 respondents [18%] did not trust the health care system). Among respondents who were vaccinated, preventing oneself from getting sick (462 respondents [57%]) and contributing to the end of the COVID-19 pandemic (453 respondents [56%]) were top reasons for getting vaccinated. All veterans reported the VA as 1 of their top trusted sources of information. The proportion of respondents trusting their VA health care practitioner as a source of vaccine information was higher among those unsure about vaccination compared with those who indicated they would definitely not or probably not get vaccinated (18 respondents [26%] vs 15 respondents [15%]). There were no significant associations between vaccine intention groups and age (chi24 = 5.90; P = .21) or gender (chi22 = 3.99; P = .14). These findings provide information needed to develop trusted messages used in conversations between VA health care practitioners and veterans addressing specific vaccine hesitancy reasons, as well as those in worse health. Conversations need to emphasize societal reasons for getting vaccinated and benefits to one's own health.
33644484 References Although Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) is primarily a disease of the respiratory system in its transmission and clinical manifestations, physicians have also reported a tropism toward the nervous system. Neurological symptoms can occur as one of many systemic manifestations of a critical form of the disease or in isolation as the predominant presenting complaint. We report a series of 6 patients who suffered significant cerebrovascular accidents while being treated for critical COVID-19 in the intensive care units of a quaternary care hospital in New York's Hudson valley. This series demonstrates how a relatively rare but catastrophic neurological complication can occur in patients with COVID-19 while they are being managed for their more common problems such as respiratory and renal failure.
32599069 References 
32664634 Author Contributions Funding Conflicts of Interest References Are new technologies in the medicine sector a driver to support the development of a society 5.0? Innovation pushes the artisan to become smart and lean, customer-oriented but within a standardized environment of production, maintaining and ensuring the quality of the product. An artisan is a user and innovator, as an essential part of the industrial chain. In the healthcare sector, the doctor is the industrial artisan, and medicine can be considered as an example of a smart tool, strongly tailored, that embeds the innovation of materials, nano-devices, and smart technology (e.g., sensors and controllers). But how much of society is ready to host smart technology "on board", becoming "on life", constantly connected with remote controls that allow us to monitor, gather data, and, in any case, act, with preventive healthcare solutions? After a short overview of the medicine sector, a preliminary, tentative link between technological innovation and the healthcare sector allows us to adopt several outlooks on how to change research, always more transdisciplinary, combining science with social science in order to remain human-centered.
34117772 References 
32592835 References 
32353545 References Intestine SARS-CoV-2 infection affects the disease course of COVID-19. The digestive system is the main target organ of SARS-CoV-2 in some patients. Viral excretion of SARS-CoV-2 in feces. Management of patients with COVID-19 after discharge should include intestine SARS-CoV-2 infection. The current reports of COVID-19 focus on the respiratory system, however, intestinal infections caused by SARS-CoV-2 are also worthy of attention. This paper reported persistence of intestinal SARS-CoV-2 infection leads to re-admission after pneumonia resolved in three cases with COVID-19.
34745449 References The COVID-19 pandemic presents great challenges on transmission prevention, and rapid diagnosis is essential to reduce the disease spread. Various diagnostic methods are available to identify an ongoing infection by nasopharyngeal (NPH) swab sampling. However, the procedure requires handling by health care professionals, and therefore limits the application in household and community settings. In this study, we aimed to determine if the detection of SARS-CoV-2 can be performed alternatively on saliva specimens by rapid antigen test. Saliva and NPH specimens were collected from 44 patients with confirmed COVID-19. To assess the diagnostic accuracy of point-of-care SARS-CoV-2 rapid antigen test on saliva specimens, we compared the performance of four test products. RT-qPCR was performed and NPH and saliva sampling had similar Ct values, which associated with disease duration. All four antigen tests showed similar trend in detecting SARS-CoV-2 in saliva, but with variation in the ability to detect positive cases. The rapid antigen test with the best performance could detect up to 67% of the positive cases with Ct values lower than 25, and disease duration shorter than 10 days. Our study therefore supports saliva testing as an alternative diagnostic procedure to NPH testing, and that rapid antigen test on saliva provides a potential complement to PCR test to meet increasing screening demand.
34724950 Abbreviations Authors' contributions Funding Availability of data and materials Declarations Ethics approval and consent to participate Consent for publication Competing interests References Pakistan has not been a major contributor to medical research, mainly because of the lack of learning opportunities to medical students. With the increase in online learning systems during COVID-19, research related skills can be taught to medical students via low-cost peer taught virtual research workshops. To assess the effectiveness of a comprehensive low-cost peer-taught virtual research workshops amongst medical students in Pakistan. This quasi-experimental study assessed the effectiveness of five virtual research workshops (RWs) in improving core research skills. RWs for medical students from across Pakistan were conducted over Zoom by medical students (peer-teachers) at the Aga Khan University, Pakistan, with minimal associated costs. The content of the workshops included types of research, ethical approval and research protocols, data collection and analysis, manuscript writing, and improving networking skills for research. Improvement was assessed via pre-and post-quizzes for each RW, self-efficacy scores across 16 domains, and feedback forms. Minimum criteria for completion of the RW series was attending at least 4/5 RWs and filling the post-RW series feedback form. A 6-month post-RW series follow-up survey was also emailed to the participants. Four hundred medical students from 36 (/117; 30.8%) different medical colleges in Pakistan were enrolled in the RWs. However, only 307/400 (76.75%) medical students met the minimum requirement for completion of the RW series. 56.4% of the participants belonged to the pre-clinical years while the rest were currently to clinical years. The cohort demonstrated significant improvement in pre-and post-quiz scores for all 5 RWs (p < 0.001) with the greatest improvement in Data Collection and Analysis (+ 34.65%), and in self-efficacy scores across all domains (p < 0.001). 166/307 (54.1%) participants responded to the 6 months post-RWs follow-up survey. Compared to pre-RWs, Research involvement increased from 40.4 to 62.8% (p < 0.001) while proportion of participants with peer-reviewed publications increased from 8.4 to 15.8% (p = 0.043). Virtual RWs allow for a wide outreach while effectively improving research-related knowledge and skills, with minimal associated costs. In lower-middle-income countries, virtual RWs are a creative and cost-effective use of web-based technologies to facilitate medical students to contribute to the local and global healthcare research community.
33851272 Declarations Human and Animal Rights Informed Consent Conflict of Interest References Papers of particular interest, published recently, have been highlighted as: Of major importance We review recent findings on the use of telepsychiatry while investigating medical students' perceptions and willingness to use it for their mental health needs. We explore the impact of COVID-19 on medical school curriculums. We also investigate current education in medical schools surrounding telemedicine. Medical students experience symptoms of anxiety at a greater rate than the general population. Major barriers to help-seeking behaviors are the refusal to seek treatment due to fear of incurring negative views from supervising faculty, time constraints, and the cost of counseling services. Those who do use telemental health resources have positive views and believe that it is an effective tool. Medical students are willing to use telepsychiatry for their personal mental health needs and recognize its value as a treatment modality that will be useful for their future patients. The telemedicine field is evolving but many medical school curriculums do not include education on telemedicine.
33507981 References Asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infection of healthcare workers (HCWs) has been reported as a key player in the nosocomial spreading of COVID-19. Early detection of infected HCWs can prevent spreading of the virus in hospitals among HCWs and patients. We conducted a cross-sectional study to determine the asymptomatic infection of HCWs in a private clinic in the city of Santiago, Chile. Our study was conducted during a period of 5 weeks at the peak of transmission of SARS-CoV-2 in Chile. Nasopharyngeal samples were obtained from 413 HCWs and tested for the presence of SARS-CoV-2 using RT-qPCR. We found that a 3.14% of HCWs were positive for the presence of SARS-CoV-2 (14/413). Out of these, 7/14 were completely asymptomatic and did not develop symptoms within 3 weeks of testing. Sequencing of viral genomes showed the predominance of the GR clade; however, sequence comparison demonstrated numerous genetic differences among them suggesting community infection as the main focus of transmission among HCWs. Our study demonstrates that the protocols applied to protect HCWs and patients have been effective as no infection clusters due to asymptomatic carriers were found in the clinic. Together, these data suggest that infection with SARS-CoV-2 among HCWs of this health center is not nosocomial.
35267053 Author contributions Funding Declarations Conflict of interests References We sought to understand how the experiences of people in the UK with pre-existing mental health conditions had developed during the course of the COVID-19 pandemic. In September-October 2020, we interviewed adults with mental health conditions pre-dating the pandemic, whom we had previously interviewed 3 months earlier. Participants had been recruited through online advertising and voluntary sector community organisations. Semi-structured qualitative interviews were conducted by telephone or video-conference by researchers with lived experience of mental health difficulties, and, following principles of thematic analysis, were analysed to explore changes over time in people's experience of the pandemic. We interviewed 44 people, achieving diversity of demographic characteristics (73% female, 54% White British, aged 18-75) and a range of mental health conditions and service use among our sample. Three overarching themes were derived from interviews. The first theme "spectrum of adaptation" describes how participants reacted to reduced access to formal and informal support through personal coping responses or seeking new sources of help, with varying degrees of success. The second theme describes "accumulating pressures" from pandemic-related anxieties and sustained disruption to social contact and support, and to mental health treatment. The third theme "feeling overlooked" reflects participants' feeling of people with mental health conditions being ignored during the pandemic by policy-makers at all levels, which was compounded for people from ethnic minority communities or with physical health problems. In line with previous research, our study highlights the need to support marginalised groups who are at risk of increased inequalities, and to maintain crucial mental and physical healthcare and social care for people with existing mental health conditions, notwithstanding challenges of the pandemic. The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s00127-022-02254-6.
32338809 REFERENCES Health care services are being confronted by a daily dilemma of who can receive critical care and who cannot. In a palliative care clinic, this apprehension gets exemplified, as these patients have limited life expectancy. The head and neck region further makes things critical, as it comprises of all the sites through which the SARS-CoV-2 can be transmitted. This document strives to define the ways in which the head and neck cancer services can contribute to better patient care in a triage context. Practical steps suggested are protective equipment use, ensuring access to critical drugs (such as opioids), greater use of telemedicine consultations, discussing advance care plans, and embracing the role of a wider community support.
33341894 References The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic in Japan is not as disastrous as it is in other Western countries, possibly because of certain lifestyle factors. One such factor might be the seaweed-rich diet commonly consumed in Japan. COVID-19 is caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), which binds to angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) on the cell surface and downregulates ACE2, likely elevating the ratio of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) to ACE2. The overreaction of the immune system, combined with the cytokine storm and ACE dominance, is purported to cause the condition of COVID-19 patients to deteriorate rapidly. Dietary seaweeds contain numerous components, including ACE inhibitory peptides, soluble dietary fibers (eg, fucoidan, porphyran), omega-3 fatty acids, fucoxanthin, fucosterol, vitamins D3 and B12, and phlorotannins. These components exert antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and antiviral effects directly as well as indirectly through prebiotic effects. It is possible that ACE inhibitory components could minimize the ACE dominance caused by SARS-CoV-2 infection. Thus, dietary seaweeds might confer protection against COVID-19 through multiple mechanisms. Overconsumption of seaweeds should be avoided, however, as seaweeds contain high levels of iodine.
35287384 References SARS-CoV-2 spike protein-induced heart inflammation may originate from either COVID-19 infection or the administration of COVID-19 mRNA vaccines. As pyrroloquinoline quinone (PQQ) is a scavenger of free radicals, redox cofactor, and antioxidant which supports cognitive and mitochondrial functions, supplementation with PQQ could have a positive effect to reduce heart inflammation after COVID-19 mRNA vaccines. However, there is no evidence yet for this opportunity in the literature. Cellular and animal model results are missing. Similarly, no clinical trials have been conducted. While it is recommended to measure the levels of the cardiac biomarkers before and after COVID-19 vaccination, no recommendation can be made about supplementation with PQQ, which, however, we note has no contraindication.
35344118 Author contributions Declarations Conflict of interest Ethical approval References Little is known about the disadvantages of the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic in patients with gastric cancer. This study aimed to examine the negative impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on patients with gastric cancer in the first era in Japan. This retrospective study included 725 patients diagnosed with gastric cancer who visited our hospital between April 2019 and March 2021. The number of patients and their characteristics before and during the COVID-19 pandemic were compared. The number of patients diagnosed with gastric cancer during the COVID-19 pandemic decreased by 26.2% (from 417 to 308; p = 0.013) compared to that before the COVID-19 pandemic. There was a significant decrease in cStage I cancer and an increase in cStage III cancer (p = 0.004). Patients were often symptomatic (p = 0.029), especially those with stenosis-related symptoms (p < 0.001) and longer symptom duration (p < 0.001). The number of endoscopic resections was decreased by 34.8% (p = 0.005). The number of total gastrectomy was higher than that of partial gastrectomy (p = 0.021). The median time to treatment was significantly shorter (p < 0.001). In Japan, delays diagnosing patients with gastric cancer, probably due to refraining from consultation, may have resulted in an increase in the diagnosis of advanced-stage cancer. Moreover, an increasing proportion of patients required more invasive gastrectomy. Therefore, it may be necessary to educate patients not to refrain from consultation, even during the COVID-19 pandemic, as it can have a negative impact on treatment, policy decision, and prognosis of gastric cancer.
35126138 References Sepsis is a syndrome with high mortality, which seriously threatens human health. During the pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), some severe and critically ill COVID-19 patients with multiple organ dysfunction developed characteristics typical of sepsis and met the diagnostic criteria for sepsis. Timely detection of cytokine storm and appropriate regulation of inflammatory response may be significant in the prevention and treatment of sepsis. This study evaluated the efficacy and safety of specific interleukin (IL)-1 inhibitors, specific IL-6 inhibitors, and GM-CSF blockades in the treatment of COVID-19 (at the edge of sepsis) patients through systematic review and meta-analysis. Methodology: A literature search was conducted on PubMed, EMBASE, Clinical Key, Cochrane Library, CNKI, and Wanfang Database using proper keywords such as "SARS-CoV-2," "Corona Virus Disease 2019," "COVID-19," "anakinra," "tocilizumab," "siltuximab," "sarilumab," "mavrilimumab," "lenzilumab," and related words for publications released until August 22, 2021. Other available resources were also used to identify relevant articles. The present systematic review was performed based on PRISMA protocol. Results: Based on the inclusion and exclusion criteria, 43 articles were included in the final review. The meta-analysis results showed that tocilizumab could reduce the mortality of patients with COVID-19 (at the edge of sepsis) [randomized controlled trials, RCTs: odds ratio (OR) 0.71, 95%CI: 0.52-0.97, low-certainty evidence; non-RCTs: risk ratio (RR) 0.68, 95%CI: 0.55-0.84, very low-certainty evidence) as was anakinra (non-RCTs: RR 0.47, 95%CI: 0.34-0.66, very low-certainty evidence). Sarilumab might reduce the mortality of patients with COVID-19 (at the edge of sepsis), but there was no statistical significance (OR 0.65, 95%CI: 0.36-1.2, low-certainty evidence). For safety outcomes, whether tocilizumab had an impact on serious adverse events (SAEs) was very uncertain (RCTs: OR 0.87, 95%CI: 0.38-2.0, low-certainty evidence; non-RCTs 1.18, 95%CI: 0.83-1.68, very low-certainty evidence) as was on secondary infections (RCTs: OR 0.71, 95%CI: 0.06-8.75, low-certainty evidence; non-RCTs: RR 1.15, 95%CI: 0.89-1.49, very low-certainty evidence). Conclusions: This systematic review showed that tocilizumab, sarilumab, and anakinra could reduce the mortality of people with COVID-19 (at the edge of sepsis), and tocilizumab did not significantly affect SAEs and secondary infections. The current evidence of the studies on patients treated with siltuximab, mavrilimumab, and lenzilumab is insufficient. In order to establish evidence with stronger quality, high-quality studies are needed. Systematic Review Registration: PROSPERO (https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/prospero/), identifier CRD42020226545
33713112 References 
33773523  The COVID-19 outbreak is known to increase stress levels of most patients with chronic diseases. Patients with ankylosing spondylitis (AS) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) are highly susceptible to environmental stress. In the current study, we aimed to determine how the COVID-19 pandemic psychologically affected patients with chronic progressive diseases such as AS and RA and the effects of these psychological factors on disease activity. Age and sex-matched patients with AS (n = 80), RA (n = 80), and healthy controls (n = 80) were included in the study. All participants were evaluated with the "Perceived COVID-19 Threat Form (PCTF)", "Suicide-Ideation Scale (SIS)", "Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS)", "The Ability to Cope with Trauma (PACT)", and "Psychological General Well-Being Index (PGWB)" scales. BASDAI was used in patients with AS, and DAS28 was used in patients with RA to assess disease severity. Compared to healthy individuals, patients with RA and AS had lower PGWB scores and higher HADS depression and anxiety subscale scores. Almost all psychometric assessment test scores were worse in AS patients with high-disease activity compared to those in low-disease activity. PACT scores were higher in patients with moderate RA compared to patients with mild RA (p = 0.006). While a positive correlation was identified between BASDAI and most of the psychometric assessment test scores (r = 0 .36 for PCTF, r = 0.53 for depressive scores, r = 0.54 for anxiety scores, r = 0.57 for suicidal ideation), DAS28 scores were found to be associated only with PACT total and PACT perceived forward-focused subscale scores (r = -.26 and r = .33, respectively). Psychologically, AS and RA patients were found to be worse off compared to healthy controls. The perceived COVID threat and psychological status were associated with disease activity in AS, but not RA patients. Patients with chronic illnesses may be more vulnerable to the psychological effects of the pandemic, which can worsen disease activity.
34522397 References 
32658716 References At the end of March 2020, ivermectin was confirmed as a drug for COVID-19 treatment. A significant amount of ivermectin could deposit into sediments of the semi-closed Mediterranean Sea, where three European COVID-19 epicenters are located: Italy, Spain, and France. Meiobenthic nematodes were exposed to three ivermectin doses (1.8 ng.g-1, 9 ng.g-1, and 18 ng.g-1) for 10 days. Ivermectin caused a great reduction in abundance. However, the diversity indices decreased only at high doses. Ivermectin disadvantaged the 1B-Cr-Id functional type (non-selective deposit feeders and nematodes with circular or indistinct amphids) and benefited the 2A-REL-Sp type (epistrate feeders and nematodes with rounded or elongated loop amphids). Thus, Trophic Diversity and Amphideal Diversity index values increased with sedimentary ivermectin enrichment. Large amphideal foveas were more efficient for 2A-REL-Sp nematodes to avoid ivermectin. The responses of the functional type 2A-REL-Sp and corresponding taxa predict post-COVID-19 environmental concerns and the bioaccumulation of ivermectin in seafoods.
32385648 Funding information Compliance with ethical standards Guarantor Conflict of interest Statistics and biometry Informed consent Ethical approval Methodology References To analyse clinical and radiological changes from disease onset to exacerbation in coronavirus infectious disease-19 (COVID-19) patients. We reviewed clinical histories of 276 patients with confirmed COVID-19 pneumonia and extracted data on patients who met the diagnostic criteria for COVID-19 severe/fatal pneumonia and had an acute exacerbation starting with mild or common pneumonia. Twenty-four patients were included. Of these, 8% were smokers, 54% had been to Wuhan, and 46% had comorbidities. Before acute exacerbation, elevated lactate dehydrogenase (232.9 +- 88.7) was present, and chest CT scans showed the number of involved lobes was 4 (2-5) and total CT score was 6 (2-8). Following acute exacerbation, patients were likely to have more clinical symptoms (p < 0.01) and abnormal laboratory changes (p < 0.01). The number of involved lobes and CT score after an exacerbation significantly increased to 5 (5-5) and 12 (9-14), respectively. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve showed that, when the cutoff value of CT score was 5, the sensitivity and specificity for severe pneumonia were 90% and 70%, respectively. CT findings of ground glass opacity with consolidations (91.7%), bilateral distribution (100.0%), and multifocal lesion (100.0%) were features in found in patients after exacerbation. There are significant changes in clinical, laboratory, and CT findings in patients from disease onset to exacerbation. An increase in the number of involved lobes or an increased CT score from the baseline may predict poor clinical outcomes. Combining an assessment of CT changes with clinical and laboratory changes could help clinical teams evaluate the prognosis. The common chest CT signs of COVID-19 pneumonia after exacerbation were ground glass opacity (GGO) with consolidation, bilateral distribution, and multifocal lesions. An increase in number of involved lobes or an increased CT score from the baseline may predict a poor clinical outcome. Worsened symptoms and abnormal laboratory results are also associated with poor prognosis.
33785197 References The need for virtual education for nursing staff has dramatically increased because of social distancing measures after the coronavirus disease pandemic. Emergency departments in particular need to educate staff on caring for patients with coronavirus disease while concurrently continuing to ensure education related to core topic areas such as pediatric assessment and stabilization. Unfortunately, many nurse educators are currently unable to provide traditional in-person education and training to their nursing staff. Our inter-professional team aimed to address this through the rapid development and implementation of an emergency nursing telesimulation curriculum. This curriculum focused on the nursing assessment and initial stabilization of a child presenting to the emergency department in status epilepticus. This article describes the rapid development and implementation of a pediatric emergency nursing telesimulation. Our objectives in this article are (1) to describe the rapid creation of this curriculum using Kern's framework, (2) to describe the implementation of a fully online simulation-based pediatric emergency training intervention for nurse learners, and (3) to report learners' satisfaction with and feedback on this intervention.
34161389 References Decision Letter 0 Author response to Decision Letter 0 Decision Letter 1 Acceptance letter This study aimed to assess the fear of COVID-19 and its associates among older Rohingya (Forcibly Displaced Myanmar Nationals or FDMNs) in Bangladesh. We conducted a cross-sectional survey among 416 older FDMNs aged 60 years and above living in camps of Cox's Bazar, Bangladesh. A semi-structured questionnaire was used to collect information on participants' socio-demographic and lifestyle characteristics, pre-existing non-communicable chronic conditions, and COVID-19 related information. Level of fear was measured using the seven-item Fear of COVID-19 Scale (FCV-19S) with the cumulative score ranged from 7 to 35. A multiple linear regression examined the factors associated with fear. Among 416 participants aged 60 years or above, the mean fear score was 14.8 (range 8-28) and 88.9% of the participants had low fear score. Participants who were concerned about COVID-19 (beta: 0.63, 95% CI: -0.26 to 1.53) and overwhelmed by COVID-19 (beta: 3.54, 95% CI: 2.54 to 4.55) were significantly more likely to be fearful of COVID-19. Other factors significantly associated with higher level of fear were lesser frequency of communication during COVID-19, difficulty in obtaining food during COVID-19, perception that older adults are at highest risk of COVID-19 and receiving COVID-19 related information from Radio/television and friends/family/neighbours. Our study highlighted that currently there little fear of COVID-19 among the older Rohingya FDMNs. This is probably due to lack of awareness of the severity of the disease in. Dissemination of public health information relevant to COVID-19 and provision of mental health services should be intensified particularly focusing on the individual who were concerned, overwhelmed or fearful of COVID-19. However, further qualitative research is advised to find out the reasons behind this.
35260957 Funding Declarations Ethical Considerations and Disclosures Conflict of Interest References In August 2021, up to 30% of Americans were uncertain about taking the COVID-19 vaccine, including some healthcare personnel (HCP). Our objective was to identify barriers and facilitators of the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) HCP vaccination program. We conducted key informant interviews with employee occupational health (EOH) providers, using snowball recruitment. Participants included 43 VHA EOH providers representing 29 of VHA's regionally diverse healthcare systems. Thematic analysis elucidated 5 key themes and specific strategies recommended by EOH. Implementation themes reflected logistics of distribution (supply), addressing any vaccine concerns or hesitancy (demand), and learning health system strategies/approaches for shared learnings. Specifically, themes included the following: (1) use interdisciplinary task forces to leverage diverse skillsets for vaccine implementation; (2) invest in processes and align resources with priorities, including creating detailed processes, addressing time trade-offs for personnel involved in vaccine clinics by suspending everything non-essential, designating process/authority to shift personnel where needed, and proactively involving leaders to support resource allocation/alignment; (3) expect and accommodate vaccine buy-in occurring over time: prepare for some HCP's slow buy-in, align buy-in facilitation with identities and motivation, and encourage word-of-mouth and hyper-local testimonials; (4) overcome misinformation with trustworthy communication: tailor communication to individuals and address COVID vaccines "in every encounter," leverage proactive institutional messaging to reinforce information, and invite bi-directional conversations about any vaccine concerns. A final overarching theme focused on learning health system needs and structures: (5) use existing and newly developed communication channels to foster shared learning across teams and sites. Expecting deliberation allows systems to prepare for complex distribution logistics (supply) and make room for conversations that are trustworthy, bi-directional, and identity aligned (demand). Ideally, organizations provide time for conversations that address individual concerns, foster bi-directional shared decision-making, respect HCP beliefs and identities, and emphasize shared identities as healthcare providers.
35441801 REFERENCES To date, COVID-19 has claimed 4.9 million lives. Diabetes has been identified as an independent risk factor of serious outcomes in people with COVID-19 infection. Whether that holds true across world regions uniformly has not been previously assessed. This study offers the first umbrella systematic review and meta-analysis to analyse the collective and geographically stratified mortality, ICU admission, ventilation requirement, illness severity and discharge rate amongst patients with diabetes. Five databases (EMBASE, MEDLINE, CAB Abstracts, PsychInfo and Web of Science) and 3 additional sources (SSRN's eLibrary, Research Square and MedRxiv) were searched from inception to 30 August 2021. Prospective and retrospective cohort studies, reporting the association between diabetes and one or more COVID-19 hospitalization outcomes, were included. This meta-analysis was registered on PROSPERO, CRD42021278579. Abbreviated MeSH terms used for search were as follows: (Diabetes) AND (2019 Novel Coronavirus Disease), adapted per database requirements. Exclusion criteria exclusion criteria were as follows: (1) none of the primary or secondary outcomes of meta-analysis reported, (2) no confirmed COVID-19 infection (laboratory or clinical) and (3) no unexposed population (solely patients with diabetes included). Quality of the included studies were assessed using the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale (NOS) whilst quality of evidence by the GRADE framework. Studies that were clinically homogeneous were pooled. Summative data and heterogeneity were generated by the Cochrane platform RevMan (V. 5.4). Overall, 158 observational studies were included, with a total of 270,212 of participants, median age 59 [53-65 IQR] of who 56.5% were male. A total of 22 studies originated from EU, 90 from Far East, 16 from Middle East and 30 from America. Data were synthesized with mixed heterogeneity across outcomes. Pooled results highlighted those patients with diabetes were at a higher risk of COVID-19-related mortality, OR 1.87 [95%CI 1.61, 2.17]. ICU admissions increased across all studies for patients with diabetes, OR 1.59 [95%CI 1.15, 2.18], a result that was mainly skewed by Far East-originating studies, OR 1.94 [95%CI 1.51, 2.49]. Ventilation requirements were also increased amongst patients with diabetes worldwide, OR 1.44 [95%CI 1.20, 1.73] as well as their presentation with severe or critical condition, OR 2.88 [95%CI 2.29, 3.63]. HbA1C levels under <70 mmol and metformin use constituted protective factors in view of COVID-19 mortality, whilst the inverse was true for concurrent insulin use. Whilst diabetes constitutes a poor prognosticator for various COVID-19 infection outcomes, variability across world regions is significant and may skew overall trends. Whilst diabetes constitutes a poor prognosticator for various COVID-19 infection outcomes, variability across world regions is significant and may skew overall trends.
33988145 References There appears to be a connection between COVID-19 infection and an airborne microscopic pollutant called particulate matter which has been suggested to act as vector for viral transmission. The highest human exposure to particulate matter occurs during smoking and to a lesser extent to 2nd hand smoking. This article offers a hypothetical proposition that particulate matter derived from tobacco smoking may act as COVID-19's vector for infection transmission. With a background smoking Chinese male population of more than 66% and more than 70% of Chinese nonsmokers exposed to 2nd hand smoke, the potential of exhaled smoke acting as a viral vector is significant. If this hypothesis is proven, measures such as face protection to reduce coronavirus-laden particulate matter transmission, measures of social distancing and legislation to protect nonsmokers from contracting the infection through 2nd hand smoking should be implemented.
33864328 REFERENCES While discussions on the effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines continue, healthcare professionals' attitudes and their growing fear and anxiety during the pandemic process are not yet fully known. In this study, we aimed to investigate the COVID-19 vaccine acceptance and affecting factors in healthcare professionals. This was a cross-sectional online survey conducted in 1574 healthcare professionals consisting of physicians, nurses, dentists, pharmacists, and healthcare personnel in Turkey in December 2020. Demographic, attitudinal, and Fear of COVID-19 Scale scores of healthcare professionals were investigated in this survey. About 84.6% of healthcare professionals declared willingness to accept the COVID-19 vaccine whenever possible. Most physicians (90.4%) stated to receive the COVID-19 vaccine, while 66.5% of nurses, 73.9% of healthcare personnel, also preferred to have it as soon as the vaccine was available. Factors affecting the willingness to accept the COVID-19 vaccine were found to be advanced age, male gender, working in a primary health care center, living with family, having a child, having a chronic disease, having high Fear of COVID-19 Scale (FC-19S) scores. While the group with the highest vaccine rejection rate was nurses with 33.5%, FC-19S scores were significantly higher in nurses who wanted to be vaccinated. In multivariate regression analyses, factors related to the acceptance of the COVID-19 vaccine were identified as advanced age, routine adult vaccination, no history of COVID-19, and recommendation of the COVID-19 vaccine. A high proportion of healthcare professionals declared their willingness to accept the COVID-19 vaccine, and hence, this will play a leading role in optimizing the vaccination rate of the entire population while combating the pandemic.
34584498 References The coronavirus (COVID-19) disease has caused serious and irreversible damage to the ecotourism industry, posing serious challenges to all parts of the ecotourism supply chain. The ecotourism supply chain is made up of various components, the most important of which are ecotourism centers. During these pandemic times, the primary concerns of these centers are to improve their deplorable economic conditions and retain customers for the post-coronavirus era. As a result, an investigation should be conducted to address these concerns and provide appropriate solutions to help them overcome the challenges that have emerged. To achieve the research goal, a bi-objective mathematical model for the ecotourism supply chain in an uncertain environment is developed, accounting for the effects of COVID-19. The first objective function minimizes the total cost of the supply chain, while the second maximizes customer satisfaction. The proposed mathematical model is solved using a fuzzy goal programming (FGP) method. A sensitivity analysis study is also carried out to examine the performance of some basic parameters. Furthermore, the model is tested in a real case study to determine its efficacy. Finally, some effective managerial insights are proposed to improve the situation of the centers during the pandemic.
34108378 References 
33831079 References There has been limited study of Native American whole genome diversity to date, which impairs effective implementation of personalized medicine and a detailed description of its demographic history. Here we report high coverage whole genome sequencing of 76 unrelated individuals, from 27 indigenous groups across Mexico, with more than 97% average Native American ancestry. On average, each individual has 3.26 million Single Nucleotide Variants and short indels, that together comprise a catalog of 9,737,152 variants, 44,118 of which are novel. We report 497 common Single Nucleotide Variants (with allele frequency > 5%) mapped to drug responses and 316,577 in enhancer or promoter elements; interestingly we found some of these enhancer variants in PPARG, a nuclear receptor involved in highly prevalent health problems in Mexican population, such as obesity, diabetes, and insulin resistance. By detecting signals of positive selection we report 24 enriched key pathways under selection, most of them related to immune mechanisms. No missense variants in ACE2, the receptor responsible for the entry of the SARS CoV-2 virus, were found in any individual. Population genomics and phylogenetic analyses demonstrated stratification in a Northern-Central-Southern axis, with major substructure in the Central region. The Seri, a northern group with the most genetic divergence in our study, showed a distinctive genomic context with the most novel variants, and the most population specific genotypes. Genome-wide analysis showed that the average haplotype blocks are longer in Native Mexicans than in other world populations. With this dataset we describe previously undetected population level variation in Native Mexicans, helping to reduce the gap in genomic data representation of such groups.
35564648 Supplementary Materials Author Contributions Funding Institutional Review Board Statement Informed Consent Statement Data Availability Statement Conflicts of Interest References (1) Background: Pelargonium sidoides extracts and lactoferrin are two important natural, anti-inflammatory, and antiviral agents, which can interfere with the early stages of SARS-CoV-2 infection. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulation approaches have been applied to check for the occurrence of interactions of the Pelargonium sidoides compounds with lactoferrin and with SARS-CoV-2 components. (2) Methods: Computational methods have been applied to confirm the hypothesis of a direct interaction between PEL compounds and the lactoferrin protein and between Pelargonium sidoides compounds and SARS-CoV-2 Spike, 3CLPro, RdRp proteins, and membrane. Selected high-score complexes were structurally investigated through classical molecular dynamics simulation, while the interaction energies were evaluated using the molecular mechanics energies combined with generalized Born and surface area continuum solvation method. (3) Results: Computational analyses suggested that Pelargonium sidoides extracts can interact with lactoferrin without altering its structural and dynamical properties. Furthermore, Pelargonium sidoides compounds should have the ability to interfere with the Spike glycoprotein, the 3CLPro, and the lipid membrane, probably affecting the functional properties of the proteins inserted in the double layer. (4) Conclusion: Our findings suggest that Pelargonium sidoides may interfere with the mechanism of infection of SARS-CoV-2, especially in the early stages.
33006551 References 